
Igla is governed by the Church of Preservation, which emphasises that all resources are finite and restrictions on the use of technology are necessary for all of its citizens. The beliefs of the church stem from the Long Night when the collapse of the Rule of Man and subsequent disintegration of interstellar trade resulted in the degradation of technological equipment, which had severe effects for those living in hostile environments, such as that of Igla. The church preaches that objects of technology are a gift from God and worthy of worship in their own right. Adherents to the religion – including all native-born Iglans by church decree – thank God for the continued operation of their technological devices with daily prayers.

Iglan society has multiple castes, each of which has access to different levels of technology. The lowest caste is only given access to facilities and equipment of approximately TL7. The church uses surveillance technology to monitor how 'devout' its citizens are and grants access to ever-greater levels of technology to those who show sufficient levels of 'enlightenment' with TL14 restricted to the priesthood and the Order of Fusion, the armed and armored guardians of Igla. The order pledges fealty to the Imperial Army and are known for their discipline, selflessness and overzealous maintenance practices. Their frugality, effectiveness and efficient use of technology has made them a model for other Imperial Army units in the subsector. Cadre battalions are sent to other systems to teach others how to achieve similar results. The order uses these missions to evangelise the teachings of the church and recruit parishioners with mixed results. Authoritarian systems, those with Law Level A+, have been receptive to their teachings. However, most high Law Level systems have their own stringent rules and regulations and sometimes bristle at the notion that their armies are being taught new ways of thinking. This can cause friction but cadres are usually allowed to continue with their instruction. After all, most military budgets are constrained and proven methods to reduce expenses must always be given a long, hard look.
