
The Anarque of Saregon is a powerful computer network that manages the lives of the planet’s 10 billion inhabitants. All of their basic needs are provided by automated and sustainable systems so the motivation to work is limited. In order to provide for everyone, the Anarque needs a constant influx of raw materials and natural resources. With a habitable mainworld, four gas giants, dozens of gas giant moons and a rich planetoid belt, Saregon might be the ideal world for just such an experiment. The Imperium is highly suspicious of unconstrained artificial intelligence, which has put the Saregonians under the watchful eye of Imperial authorities but Saregonian culture is open and allows the Imperium to probe and analyse the system as much as they like.

The Anarque subdivides the world’s inhabitants according to needs, so provincial borders vary from day-to-day even if the location of residents does not. Most Saregonians do not engage in work as most understand the concept. However, the system makes sure to keep the citizens busy with one task or another, some of which are industrious and some more artistic or social in nature. All citizens are outfitted with wafer jacks into which they plug software they need to perform their assigned tasks. The end result is a culture that seems to be terribly busy, flitting from place-to-place, engaged in one activity or another but little of which appears to be absolutely necessary. Some have joked that the Saregonians are on a life-long scavenger hunt forced upon them by its ruling computer system.

The world’s opportune location on a sizable jump-1 main has made it rich from trade, the bounties of which are shared among its populace. Wealth is not shared equally but according to need and relatively few Saregonians argue with the outcome. Those who are dissatisfied are encouraged to seek their way elsewhere and willingly granted exit visas to any of the other systems in the subsector.

Population is strictly controlled by the Anarque but this is done subtly so as not to convey the feeling that one lacks self-determination. Should one province or another exceed its quota of citizens, sonic inhibitors in the arcologies impede further conception until the numbers balance out again. Critics of these techniques have called them ‘soft eugenics’ but most Saregonians just see it as the Anarque being practical. Neighbouring systems such as Sinad, Ganad, Igla and Shakiiga have runaway population crises that result in an endless cycle of overcrowding and overdevelopment, and all of which require authoritarian governments to keep them from slipping into chaos. Saregon has averted such problems by turning over the decision making to an advanced computer system without overtly curtailing individual freedoms.
