Onon is an inhospitable world originally settled by the Vilani over 5,000 years ago. Among the planet’s many imposing features are high winds of over 350 kilometers per hour, acid rain and poisonous gas clouds emitted from porous and cracked volcanic plains. The final straw for the colony may have come when a violent shifting of the world’s tectonic plates massively increased the volcanism. So much volcanic effluvium was emitted into the atmosphere that Onon was concealed in worldwide dust-cloud cover for over two centuries. Onon has ample resources but ultimately proved to be too challenging an environment to sustain a long-term settlement. The only colonists who remained were belters who settled the system’s two planetoid belts. The belts were never especially rich and were eventually tapped of what valuable metals they had.

Today, Onon is a lonely and desolate system with only a few thousand permanent inhabitants. The world receives few visitors other than an occasional team of geological researchers. While not technically an Imperial Reserve, the Emperor does use it as a solemn refuge from time-to-time in order to get away from the stresses of managing an empire. Much of the world’s infrastructure has fallen into ruin and is being reclaimed by native flora and the elements. The major Imperial retreat is the central palace and surrounding government buildings, poised on a sheer cliff overlooking a scum-choked sea; much of the surrounding city is also in ruin. An obsidian fortress has been built for the Emperor on one of Onon’s mid- size mountains, overlooking a wide basalt plain. Its stark vistas and noxious black cloud cover make it an excellent place for brooding and deep contemplation.
