Rhylea has a hybrid hydrogen-chloride/carbon dioxide atmosphere with trace oxygen. The world does not have much in the way of complex life forms but does have abundant microbial species and several hundred types of oceanic algae, coastal lichens and low-lying shrubbery, which have been catalogued by naturalists who explored the world in hostile environment suits. Like most F-type stars, Rhylea's primary simply will not have a long enough lifespan for the world to evolve a broader range of flora and fauna.

The world was barren until a few centuries ago when Sylean colonists built a cultural and religious refuge there. The name of the world means 'new home'. The colony is governed by a council of priests, philosophers and academics and has no law to speak of. While the facilities are intended for people of Sylean heritage, non-Syleans are not forbidden from coming. However, visitors are expected to adopt the dress, customs and language of ancient Sylea. The official language is Old Sylean and speaking Galanglic, Vilani and other languages is discouraged. Monks at the temple will teach visitors the language provided they prove their heritage is at least 75 percent Sylean.

The domes and other structures of the colony are deliberately mid-tech but are ornate, well-designed and have been built with high-quality materials. Sylean culture emphasises prosperity and the acquisition of wealth and it appears that the Rhylean colony has well-heeled benefactors.

Residents and visitors alike are allowed to explore the exotic environment of the planet, which they often do. Vehicles are provided by the colony but many people opt to simply don an environment suit and go for a hike. The chlorine in the atmosphere gives it a fumy green colour and visibility is limited. The colony has begun to keep close tabs on explorers with tracking and communications devices after a few expeditions were lost in the world's murky mountain ranges.
