A water world with only a few small land masses, Shudusham has been inhabited for thousands of years dating back to the early expansion periodof the First Imperium. The world,  which the Vilani called Lauursha, was isolated during the Long Night. Shudusham is rich in natural resources but presentsa challenging environment that requires reasonably high technology to survive. When the flow of interstellar trade abruptly came to a halt, many of the world's thousands of undersea arcologies floundered and died. Small groups of cities and in many cases individual arcologies became isolated city states. Radio contact was retained and used by oceangoing ships and submarines but linguistic drift divided the arcology nations even further.

After being contacted by Sylean scouts, the Lauurshans eagerly accepted technological aidand gradually climbed back up the technological  ladder, eventually surpassing their pre-Long Night level. After recontact, the locals adopted Galanglic as their primary language but even today, people from many of the extant arcologies speak a local dialect as a second language. Lauursha changed its name to Shudusham, referencing a resurrection story from Vilani lore often likened to the story of the phoenix from ancient Terran mythology. Shudushami resources and industrial output are given a great deal of credit for fuelling the rise of the Sylean Federation and its successor, the Third Imperium.

For over 700 years, Shudusham has been the site of the famous Shudusham Robotics Conference. Held once every 10 years, this year-long conference attracts academics and technologists from throughout the [[Core sector]]  and beyond. New discoveries, product demonstrations and thousands of panels are held during the year-long event. Shudusham was selected to host the event due to its historical significance. About a century before the founding of the Third Imperium, terrorists used armed robots to destroy a Sylean warship at Fornol. Shortly thereafter, Shudusham hosted the Shudusham Robotics Concords, which set strict limitations on the use of robots.
