Syroe was on the edge of ecological disaster until Emperor Martin II intervened in the mid-230s. Syroe, then called Shaaak, was overpopulated and governed by an agency that sought to develop its resources as fully as it could with little regard for the environmental damage it was causing. Its industrial concerns were producing toxic atmospheric taints, which threatened the lives of its inhabitants. In addition, careless development projects had done a great deal of damage to the world’s surface by speeding up the erosion of delicate coastal land masses. Martin could not stomach having such a collapse occur right on Capital’s doorstep. He initiated a deindustrialization and emigration program that sought to reverse the seemingly inevitable disaster and relocate millions of its most endangered citizens to the previously undeveloped worlds of Ase, Uunli (now Umgadin) and Khishnar (now Xalm).

It was a colossal undertaking that took decades to complete. Using disposable one-shot and two-shot jump drives, the Shaaaki were transported to their new homes where they built three new societies, two of that – Ase and Umgadin – have become industrial powerhouses. Each had rich planetoid belts which were mined for the materials they needed to build their societies. Things have not gone quite as well on Xalm, which is in environmental freefall but Imperial aid has been provided in an attempt to reverse its decline.

Syroe is a small, low-gravity world with three continents and highly unusual geography. Most of the accessible land on the world is in the form of high plateaus surrounded by sharp, craggy mountain ranges at the coasts that appear to jut upwards from the sea like daggers. At the center of each continent is a massive caldera, each of which was active approximately a million years ago but all of which are dormant now. The largest of the continents actually has two overlapping calderas but the oldest of the two seems to have gone dormant many millions of years before the other. Natural erosion has cut sharp crevices and canyons into the plateaus, carving them up with deep river valleys and canyons some of which descend below sea level where the atmosphere is considerably denser, nearly reaching a thin classification. In its oceans, Syroe has two enormous atolls created by additional calderas but which failed to reach above the surface of the water. One of the two is still active and has been bubbling a sulphurous spume to the surface for centuries but it has not violently erupted for hundreds of thousands of years.

The placid, stable K-type primary star of the system is old and the planet has had billions of years to develop a complex array of life forms. Its distant red dwarf companion is too remote to have a noticeable effect on the system mainworld. Imperial Navy and Scout bases have been present on Syroe since the early 300s. Emperor Anguistus endowed the world with a multi-billion Credit grant, which was used to terraform it back into a more pristine state, a project which was completed in the early 600s and has been in maintenance mode ever since.
