Tiwath is a tidally locked circumbinary planet that absorbs regular, almost rhythmic stellar flares from one of the two red dwarf stars that it orbits. The flares, which occur every 15–18 years, cause immense fires in the twilight band, virtually levelling its forests and evaporating seas and marshlands. Without fail, this event is followed by an upwelling of convection currents that carry nutrients from the dark side of the planet to replenish the scorched lands. New trees, foliage and animal life grow at a miraculous rate and are typically restored within one to two years.

The people of Tiwath have adapted to this cycle of creative destruction, moving to deep subterranean hovels during the flares and taking with them a bounty of agricultural products grown during the fertile years between each cycle. They carefully monitor the progress of the flares while underground and return to the surface when they are over. The return to the surface is marked by glorious festivals followed by the building of new habitations and the planting of new crops. Tiwathans are avid naturalists and enjoy hiking into their marshes and forests to watch the wildlife re-emerge from its dormant state.

Every few centuries, the flare cycle has a 'hiccup' of sorts in which the star breaks its rhythm, producing shorter or longer flare-and-growth cycles. This presents enormous challenges for the Tiwathans who gauge the cycles as precisely as possible. The Imperium routinely offers assistance during these challenging periods but has been unequivocally rebuffed thus far. The Tiwathans see themselves as the blessed custodians of their world and feel they must take the bad with the good, even when it means risking their very survival.

