
Wrebil was once the site of an extensive psionic training institute, which was grooming psionic aides to serve high nobles. Initiates in the program were the cream of the crop, selected from thousands of candidates within the Core. The group trained at a secure facility known as 'the Keep', located on a high seamount in the world's northern hemisphere. When the Psionic Suppressions occurred, the group resisted dissolution and incarceration, resulting in a bloody confrontation with a battalion of Imperial Marine lift infantry troops. Despite being unarmed and unarmored, the psionics gave as they received, using their abilities to take out dozens of marines during the assault.

In an effort to ingratiate themselves with the locals, initiates from the Keep were regularly parcelled out to members of Wrebil's ruling bureaucracy, where they made themselves invaluable members of Wrebilian society. When the marines came down from the heavens and the Keep was destroyed, it caused a great deal of unrest and ultimately resulted in the dissolution of the government. Wrebil split up into factional governments, some of which were pro-Imperial and some adamantly against them. Grievances were settled over time and theanti-Imperial nations have simply become more  isolationist while the pro-Imperial ones have sought more involvement from the interstellar community.

Of note, several of the psions at the Keep escaped the attack aboard a deep sea submarine. The marines were unable to pursue beyond 100 meters of depth in their assault craft but did manage to fire weapons at the submarine and claimed that it was destroyed. Conspiracy theories abound that the psions actually escaped and resumed their roles helping Wrebil to govern its society and that the balkanised nations of the world are a ruse to put off the Imperium. There are also rumors that the master of the Keep, an über-talented psion by the name of Marak Ilyaman, has been able to use a unique Awareness talent to maintain his youth, thereby making him immortal. Allegedly he continues to lead and teach psions from a secret training facility, far beneath the water world's ocean surface.
