Diam Kani is the site of a failed terraforming experiment in which genetically engineered ‘airplants’ – a collection of oxygen-producing purplish-black plants, fungi and lichen – were strategically spread over the desert world’s surface in an effort to thicken its atmosphere. The original expedition to the world failed to find aquifers or other sources of liquid water and funding dried up before they could import the needed hydrogen and nitrogen to make things work. Nevertheless, the resilient genetically engineered airplants have grown in  bundance, extracting nitrogen and oxygen from the soil and distributing it into Diam Kani’s otherwise inhospitable atmosphere. Unfortunately, the planet’s lack of a magnetic field, small size and proximity to its orange main sequence primary means oxygen generated by the airplants is bled off at a slightly slower rate than it is generated. In time, the ravenous airplants will consume most of the oxygen from the soil and leave the world an even more dried-out husk than they found it.

When Aursis acquired Diam Kani, it was assumed they would find a way to jumpstart the terraforming project and get things back on track. However, this was far from their intentions. Aursis has converted Diam Kani into a ‘war world’, a place where squabbling systems in Ch’naar come to air out their grievances with one another so they do not have to wreak havoc on their own environments. Apparently, the idea originated from a chance encounter with a high-ranking Aslan member of the Imperial Guard. The Aslan told stories about the ruling clans back in the Hierate, who designated certain inhospitable worlds as neutral locations where conflicting clans could go to conduct forms of ritual warfare. This enabled them to resolve disputes without wrecking valuable landholds on their own worlds.

So far, Diam Kani has only been the site of a few small battles, all of which were staged to resolve disputes between bickering nobles. The wreckage of each conflagration has been left behind on the planet like so much rubbish. Subsequent battles have used the burned-out chassis of tanks and APCs from previous conflicts  as cover and field fortifications. Salvagers are allowed to scour dormant battlefields at their leisure but the hostile environment of the planet prevents all but the most well- geared crews from doing so.

While the war world concept has yet to fully catch on, megacorporation Instellarms and other weapons dealers have set up shop at Diam Kani to sell their wares. Diam Kani’s atmosphere is very thin but rich in oxygen, which means that demonstrations of mid-tech conventional arms produce impressive pyrotechnical displays. The ring of territory extending from approximately 100–250km from the starport is used for all sorts of weapon demonstrations, many of which result in big sales for the corporation. In fact, sales have been so brisk that Instellarms invested in the starport, upgrading it from Class C to Class B, in order to accommodate the rush of customers to the planet.

Meanwhile, critics have come to question the feasibility of the war world concept. In the Core, most disputes are resolved diplomatically. While armed conflicts certainly occur from time-to-time, the Core is supposed to represent the peak of human achievement. Designating worlds like Diam Kani as places to kill one another might have a deleterious effect on civilization. The battles that have been held on the world so far could definitely have been resolved with less loss of life and property damage. In fact, some question whether these wars would have occurred at all if a venue such as Diam Kani did not exist.
