Count Rolfo Menderis of Gidekis is originally from [[Night]] in the [[Cadion subsector]] where he made his riches producing advanced quantum microprocessors for the Imperial Navy. The Menderis Corporation remains a powerful, multi-subsector operation and competes well against megacorporations in the same industries. Menderis was awarded a noble patent for his efforts and assigned the Gidekis, Gandar and Shueshlar systems as his county. During the reign of the previous subsector duke, Menderis had virtual free reign to administer the worlds under his purview. He designed and appointed each of their respective governments, traded freely with whomever he wished and influenced the current governmental structure of Khea, a key world of the old Chanestin Kingdom. Under the current subsector duchess, he finds himself considerably more restrained.

Gidekisian government is based on a high degree of specialization with each of its widespread oceanic provinces focused on a unique industry. The largest ‘continent’ in the Gide (the word used for the planet’s worldwide ocean) is Lemuria, which consists of a series of cities built on seamounts and floating grav platforms. Lemuria is the primary processing center for the Gidekis fishing industry which, like most Gidekisian operations, is highly automated. Other continents are focused on the fishing operations themselves, aquaculture and deep-sea mining. The high technology at Gidekis’ disposal means that little labour is performed by human hands but instead done remotely using specialized robots. These robots are designed on Gidekis and manufactured on Gandar.

Menderis’ operations have recently come under scrutiny by Aursisian authorities who have threatened to impose a subsector-wide embargo on trade with the Chanestin worlds. However, evidence suggests that Menderis has not reduced shipments to them at all. While there are no Imperial laws that prevent trade with the Chanestin, Menderis must tread a fine line. He does billions of Credits of business with Aursis and does not want to jeopardise his contracts with the subsector capital. Aursisian government agents and auditors are trying to catch Menderis in the act of smuggling goods to prohibited worlds in Dunea subsector but have so far been unable to prove that anything is amiss. Despite the lack of a ‘smoking gun’, Aursis is pulling out all the stops to drive Gidekis into submission. Aursisian diplomats are attempting to curry favor with the government of Zimmel, which owns Gandar. Aursis wants Zimmel to force Gandar to expel Menderis’ manufacturing operations on the world if they continue to flout the embargo. Menderis provides a lot of jobs on Gandar and Zimmel is hesitant to rock the boat; however, the Duchess of Aursis has promised that the Emperor will assign baronies to the Anarchs of Zimmel should they comply. This tangled web of corporate and political influence has yet to be resolved. Meanwhile, Menderis is content to keep all of his operations running smoothly until he finds himself forced to do otherwise.

