The Geonee Alakavala Corporation from the Massilia sector has been buying up property and industrial capital on Krain and Mirror, two worlds with suitable environments for the high-gravity-oriented human Minor Race. The Geonee are eager to get a foothold in the Core market and an overemphasis on military matters in Ch'naar has them believing they can make a splash by focusing on commercial pursuits by rapidly increasing the Tech Levels of both worlds and making them viable players in the heavy machinery and automation industries. The Geonee, who tend to govern with a light touch, believe their values will be embraced by the locals of these two worlds, each of which has a remarkably free society.

As a species, the Geonee are highly focused on ownership. They very much want to know who owns what and, furthermore, what they can obtain for themselves. This cultural trait has been a bit jarring for some of the long-time residents of these worlds. While both worlds are barely populated, and there is plenty of land to be had, the aggressive approach of the Geonee has made their arrival feel a bit more like an invasion than a business venture. For their part, the Geonee have expressed that they merely want to know where the lines are drawn so they do not offend the locals. They also want to know what is up for grabs so they can establish ownership of the things they believe they will need to be successful.

The Geonee are common in Imperial space and may be found on a number of worlds. They usually segregate themselves into ethnic communities but are quite gregarious and branch out into society by taking roles in engineering and business. One of the more eccentric aspects of the Geonee is that they believe they are the descendants of the Ancients. While others find this dubious, the Geonee seem to be quite assured of their heritage. Knowing that Geonee often seek out worlds with Ancients sites has caused a bit of a stir in the region. Neither Krain nor Mirror are known to have been graced by the Ancients but the mere presence of the Geonee has drawn archaeologists and speculators to these worlds for a fresh look.

