### ANOMALY FIVE

Anomaly Five is [[Red Zone]]d, potentially causing problems for jump-1 traffic in the local cluster as there is no alternative route to [[Thengin]] and [[Magash]], a problem solved by the presence of an orbital fuelling station around the system's outermost gas giant. This custom-built installation is not a starport and does not welcome visitors. It is manned by civilians on contract to the [[Imperial Navy]] and protected by a small fighter detachment based at one end of the station.  Ships passing through the neighboring systems are directed to the station and warned that approaching the 'mainworld' is forbidden.

Anomaly Five is a small moon of the innermost gas giant, designated the system's mainworld in the 400s.  It was [[Red Zone]]d in the 690s, essentially forbidding the whole system to unauthorized traffic. This was an unusual measure, especially given the system's location on a jump-1 link. The [[Imperial Navy]] does not discuss the reasons for the interdiction but maintains a standing patrol at all times. This varies from a handful of escorts to a destroyer, and occasionally an old cruiser is assigned to watch Anomaly Five for a few weeks. Challenges to vessels violating the [[Red Zone]] are robust, involving at the very least a boarding and close questioning. The navy has shown willing to fire on those who do not provide a reason for their presence.

The Imperial authorities deny rumors that secret research is being undertaken on the surface of Anomaly Five and most records of the initial surveys have been expunged. However, there is some evidence that early planetologists found large mass concentrations deep under the surface of Anomaly Five. Speculation ranges from incredible Ancient wonders awaiting discovery (as always) to deposits of superheavy elements. Whatever the truth may be, the [[Imperium]] is keen to ensure that nobody gets too close to Anomaly Five, though whose protection this is for remains a mystery.