### VANZETI

Vanzeti is a water world with a very thin atmosphere and four moons. As a result, it suffers from rapid changes of temperature and extreme tides. Fog is very common, impeding travel and quite often interfering with routine operations at the starport but more caution is required for the 'wallstorms', giant walls of seawater travelling around the globe. These lie somewhere between fog, extremely heavy rain and a vaporous suspension, dragged along by the gravity of the moons. When a wallstorm arrives, it dumps large quantities of water on everything in its path but is not directly damaging due to the thinness of the world's atmosphere. Wallstorms make using conventional compressor masks risky as intakes can fill and drown the user.

Vanzeti's population is almost entirely restricted to the chains of islands around the starport region. The numerous small towns are all very similar; run-down and anything but prosperous. A long time ago Vanzeti was colonized at these locations but the machinery wore out and promised follow-up missions did not arrive. The population made the best of it but over the years Vanzeti became notorious as a place nobody would settle by choice. Those that end up there are usually trying to get away or hiding from something. An unlucky few are passing through and simply get stuck on Vanzeti. As a stop on the Thengin-Mora jump-2 route, Vanzeti's port sees a reasonable amount of passing traffic but most ships simply refuel and move on without conducting trade.

Vanzeti's only real industry is starship 'refurbishment and upgrade', a term that can have various meanings.  Representatives of the world's ruling elite can be encountered on almost every world within 20 parsecs, offering a low but not completely unreasonable price for old and worn-out starships. Few questions are asked and it is widely assumed that Vanzeti buys pirated and stolen vessels, as well as ships that have become uneconomical to operate.

Most ships are broken for spares but a few are rebuilt as working vessels, often involving a mishmash of whatever components – including hull sections – are available.  The buyer really needs to be aware when dealing with the shipwrights of Vanzeti but every ship they sell is spaceworthy. It is also possible to obtain custom upgrades, although this depends very much on whether the right parts and components are available. 'Custom upgrade' in this context usually means either additional weaponry or a modification that would not be carried out by a more reputable shipyard.

Some upgraded vessels are operated by the system defence flotilla, a poorly trained but generally effective force loyal to the ruling elite. Whilst too small to pose a threat to a real warship, these ships are more than adequate for dealing with the occasional corsair. Some can be encountered in nearby systems, carrying out missions for their owners or a client whose identity they prefer not to reveal.

Vanzeti has a scout base, located on a remote island and with little interaction with the world population. The [[Scout Service]] is rather vague about what this installation and its personnel are doing but it is generally thought that Vanzeti's atmospheric conditions were sufficiently unusual to merit building a facility to study them and once in operation the base was maintained 'just in case'. Few vessels are granted permission to land at the installation but those that do find it operated by a skeleton staff who seem to do little more than keep the base in working order. It is possible – likely, even – that the scouts collect data on the activities of the world population and their ship conversion industry, feeding it back to Imperial intelligence services aboard regular supply vessels.
