### GRAM
Located on the Gram Arm of the [[Sword Worlds]] section of the Spinward Main, Gram is a moderate sized world with a dense, tainted atmosphere and about 50% coverage of seas. The world is remarkable in that this 50/50 coverage is almost perfect; there is one giant ocean and one supercontinent, although there are a number of small inland seas here and there.

Gram was the first of the [[Sword Worlds]] to be settled.  The world was sufficiently habitable to allow the colonists to establish a home and then spread to what became the other [[Sword Worlds]] as their numbers grew. For this reason, the people of Gram have always considered themselves the best of the Sword Worlders and, of course, the rightful leaders of the Confederation. Gram has now held on to power in the [[Sword Worlds]] since 852, a remarkable achievement in such a turbulent political environment. Somewhat over a century ago, the administrative apparatus of the Confederation was moved to a purpose-built city located on the far side of the planet from Gram's own capital.

It is a heavily populated and industrialised world whose aristocracy are the owners of major industrial and commercial companies. Some are businessmen or captains of industry, others simply the heads of families that own businesses and pay staff to run them, then able to pursue other interests or a career in the military.

The popular image of the typical Sword Worlder is one of a rugged freeholder with rifles over the fireplace, working his land during the day and swapping tall tales with his neighbors over strong drinks in the evening. On Gram, this is far from the truth. Most of the population live in large cities and work either in industry or the services that support it. There are also many legal restrictions, in part made necessary by having such a large urban population; Gram's billions are governed by a high Law Level that prohibits private ownership of firearms. This would be unthinkable to the rugged frontiersman of Sword World ideals but is a fact of life on Gram.

One of Gram's most important industries is shipbuilding, especially for the navies of the Confederation. Sword World ships are of a lower Tech Level than those of the [[Imperium]] and not capable of far jumps. Since it is possible to reach almost any point in the [[Sword Worlds]] along the main, vessels intended for primarily defensive operations are normally only capable of jump-1, allowing them to redeploy under their own power but not surrendering space to large fuel tanks and drive systems.  Warships intended for offensive operations are built with higher jump capabilities for greater strategic mobility.

What both types have in common is a blocky and extremely tough design, with multiple-redundant systems to allow them to soak up massive punishment without being forced to withdraw. This suits Sword World commanders, among whom an unwarranted retreat is grounds for disgrace, and damage to a ship a badge of honor. Indeed, it has been said that the ideal naval engagement from the point of view of a Sword World captain is one where his ship is shot to ribbons and at least one of his peers breaks off action with a less damaged ship.

Sword World ground combat equipment is manufactured along similar lines and Gram is a major supplier to the rest of the Confederation. Combat vehicles are tough and well-armed but lacking in sensors and electronic equipment.

Despite a certain amount of pride at being the capital of the Confederation, first of the [[Sword Worlds]], and source of much of the Confederation's military equipment, there is considerable disaffection among the workers of Gram.  The cities are grim and there are few opportunities for personal advancement. Some of the mid-level aristocracy have begun to champion these disaffected groups; in some cases out of genuine concern but others are doing it as a placebo, knowing that nothing will change, as they use workers as footsoldiers in their own political battles.

At present there have been few serious incidents, but crime and violence are on the rise in the poorer sections of the cities and there have been short strikes by workers.  These are normally accompanied by loud protestations by the workers of their loyalty to Gram and the [[Sword Worlds]], and are surprisingly good-natured as well.

In one factory, for example, the workers downed tools late in the afternoon shift once a week, like clockwork.  They then marched outside where they made a statement to the press and steadfastly refused to return to work for the remainder of the day. The police sent a patrol as a token presence but there was no trouble. A representative of the management turned up to explain yet again that the issue was being addressed but concessions were not possible at the time. The strikers promised to continue their protest until their grievances were dealt with. This was accepted by both workers and owners as a necessary safety valve for disaffection both valid and unavoidable.

Not everyone is so good-natured, however. There have been all-but-revolutions in some plants, sabotage in others and attempts on the lives of members of the aristocracy. Rioting has erupted in some cities, although this is rare. It seems that unless conditions for the typical Gram citizen improve then the situation will continue to worsen – and creating a better life for billions would be hugely expensive if at all possible.