### HRUNTING
Hrunting lies at a junction on the coreward arm of the [[Sword Worlds]] main, which is astrographically part of the Spinward Main but generally considered to be more or less separate due to local political conditions. Its port sees considerable traffic headed out into Querion and Vilis, and the naval base supports cross-border patrols into neutral space, typically by vessels optimized for a long cruise. It has been suggested that many of these ships would be well suited to commerce raiding in Imperial space to coreward-trailing but the [[Sword Worlds Confederation]] has never commented on the subject.

Hrunting has a standard atmosphere, despite fairly low surface gravity, and possesses little surface water, largely due to 'superflare' activity on the part of Hrunting's red dwarf primary. The star flares from time-to-time causing no ill effects but on a cycle of 10-
15,000 years it produces superflares. The last caused much of Hrunting's water to evaporate and be lost to space – a higher gravity world would not have suffered such a severe loss. As a result, Hrunting's seas are small and surrounded by extensive mineral flats that make agriculture difficult. Away from the seas, much of the surface is arid.

The majority of the population dwell in small communities close to the seas, with a few modest sized cities acting as trade hubs and transportation centres.  There is little native life on land and few imported  species have taken to the mineral-rich environment left behind by the evaporating oceans. The seas have a reasonable biosphere but Hrunting is a young world without many complex creatures. One exception is the group of species known as Stone Trees, which resemble trees or bushes but are in fact a mollusc-like creature with a bark-like outer shell. The Stone Trees favor a mineral-rich environment and thrive along the shores of the shrinking seas. Some can be eaten – indeed, certain species are considered delicacies – but others are toxic to humans.