### CRAW 
Craw is located 3 parsecs from Glisten, on the Spinward Main. Much of the surface is desert or rocky badlands, with the only large body of water a sea at the northern pole. Away from the coasts, the terrain varies from classic sand deserts complete with dunes, through broken rocky regions, to mountainous areas, some with active volcanoes. None of these regions receives much in the way of rainfall and average temperatures are high, accounting for the general lack of plant life.

What there is tends to be tough and wiry, and particularly unattractive.

Although Craw is a small world, it is of above-average density and maintains a standard-pressure atmosphere.  However, as a result of the lack of plant life, there is relatively little oxygen in the air. It is still possible to breathe unassisted but humans not accustomed to the environment find it uncomfortable, tire easily and sometimes suffer from the effects of altitude sickness.
Filter masks are of no benefit as it is not airborne particles that makes the atmosphere difficult to breathe but the lack of oxygen. An oxygen mask, or a respirator mask is necessary for offworlders lacking several weeks of acclimatization.

Despite its unappealing nature, Craw is home to some seven million or so humans. About two-thirds of the population live around the shores of the polar sea; the remainder dwell in settlements of moderate size across the globe, wherever water can be found. Government is by a democratic system of representation, although the difficulty of communicating or travelling over long distances means that outlying areas are not properly represented and more or less autonomous.

Humans on Craw are descended from early colonists who came to exploit mineral resources. The mission was not a great success and, due to a number of factors, the colony went through a survival/subsistence phase that lasted for centuries before beginning to recover. Today, as a backwater world with little in the way of exports to pay for imported technology, the people of Craw have a long way to go in order to build themselves a technological society.

A major factor in the local economy is the use of native labour. Craw is home to tribes of intelligent humanoids whose considerable numbers are not counted as part of the world population. These natives are well adapted to the local conditions and can function better than an acclimatised human, making them an ideal source of agricultural and heavy labour. The tribes that live apart from humans have a primitive TL1 society, while those with human contact are generally capable of maintaining TL2.

The tribes close to human settlements are dominated by them to the point where natives serve as sepoys in an army that serves mainly to keep down the tribes and impose a condition not far short of slavery. Native workers (some come right out and call them slaves) are subject to very strict restrictions as they labour for the benefit of the human population. This has led to a state of near-constant conflict between the human population and their 'allied' natives, versus the 'wild' natives who have greater numbers but low-tech equipment.

Slavery is illegal in the [[Imperium]] but there has been no Imperial intervention. One reason for this is that demolishing the current system on Craw would result in the human population being evacuated or else either starve or be killed by enraged natives. If evacuated, where would they go?

A number of Imperial activists have arrived on Craw to investigate the situation and report on the shameful exploitation of a native population. They have a difficult task ahead; the human population resents them, the wild natives will kill them (as they would any other human) and, even if they succeed, they must convince an Imperial agency to act on behalf of the natives. No great changes can be expected any time soon.

There is another offworld group on Craw whose welcome is warmer in some quarters. A team from a mid-sized mineral company, InStarSpec, created a base of operations at Craw Starport (incidentally upgrading it to Class C) and secured it with mercenaries. InStarSpec then set-up a handful of small mineral extraction bases and exports what they produce via the port, paying the locals a fee for the privilege. While modest, this represents hard cash that can be invested by the world government. As the InStarSpec operation expands, the locals will be able to bring more offworld technology to Craw. Already the port town is a strange mix of local and imported technology, bought mainly from TL5-7 worlds.

In addition to the single merchant vessel chartered by InStarSpec to run between Craw and Glisten, other ships are beginning to trickle in and there are hopes that regular trade may follow. Time will tell whether Craw becomes a great success story built on a partnership of local government and offworld mining corporation, with a bit of slave-labour thrown in, or whether the corporation ends up running the world –
locals, natives, and all.