### GLISTEN
The Glisten system is well placed to act as a communications and trade hub for the surrounding subsector; one reason why it was chosen as the subsector capital. It is located at the 'wrong end' of the Spinward Main and getting there requires a long meandering trip through several subsectors, some of which are hazardous, others merely backwaters. For commercial traffic this is simply not viable and, as a means to move information, it is extremely slow.

Most traffic into Glisten comes in via the jump-2 link through Trin's Veil or the jump-3 link to Strouden in Lunion. What jump-1 traffic there is tends to be confined to the local cluster and nearby sections of the main in District 268. This has created a distinct cultural region around Glisten, with its own accents and variations on social customs

The Glisten system is centered on the star Gliss, orbited by a single gas giant and no rocky planets.
The population of the system numbers in the billions, housed in large cities built on asteroids all throughout the inner asteroid belt. Each city has its own administrative apparatus, all of which ultimately form part of the efficient, but dull, Glisten Co-ordinating Authority, a civil service government that runs the system. Laws are moderate but, with so many settlements housing vast numbers of people and scattered across an entire system, a rather stodgy administration has emerged with red tape wrapped around almost any activity.

The capital is Glisten City, a huge metropolis that grew out of the much smaller Gliss Ten settlement chosen as administrative center for the system long ago. Glisten City is the site of the huge starport and serves as the main center for trade and business, as well as the administrative capital. Many other cities are specialized in their industrial or social activities, such as agriculture, light and heavy industry, and there is even an artists' colony. There are a number of more general settlements but these are of much lesser economic importance than the great centres for trade and industry.

With its large industrial complexes and extremely high Tech Level, Glisten is an important exporter of technological goods across the sector and beyond. Its

shipyards are widely renowned, mostly located in the outer Pluvis Belt. Among them is an enormous yard owned and operated by Ling Standard Products, as well as smaller and more specialized shipbuilders such as Bilstein Yards. The Pluvis Belt is also the site of Glisten's naval base, home port of the subsector fleet.
The immediate region around the base is a restricted area and heavily patrolled, with sensor outposts constructed on a number of asteroids to give wider coverage.

Glisten also has an extensive scout base, located in the main belt near the starport. In addition to a huge fleet of cutters dedicated to the ongoing effort to chart and catalogue every asteroid in the system, the base is home to a flotilla of communications and exploration vessels.

The Glisten system attracts large numbers of students to its academic institutions, which include the Glisten Institute of Planetological Studies (GLIPS) and the Mining School of Glisten, which is associated with GLIPS but autonomous. The Mining School receives funding from several corporate and megacorporate sources, which offer scholarships for promising students in the prospecting, extraction, processing and management disciplines. Ex-students are recruited in large numbers by mining corporations across the sector.

There is also a community of what could be called true Belters within the system. Although not officially part of Glisten's population, the Belters are subject to local laws while in-system and most are willing to comply, more or less. However, there are groups who routinely ignore comm-channel restrictions, traffic control instructions and other governmental rules which are considered very important by the people and government of Glisten.  Enforcement of these rules is usually accompanied by howls of protest from Belter groups who claim they are being persecuted. For the Belters' part, most are just trying to make their way in the universe with a little prospecting or working a claim on some outsystem asteroid. The shiny cities of the main belt are built on asteroids but the people who live there are no more Belters than planetsiders are - the Belters have nothing in common with them and are happy to just go their own way. Local laws are mostly followed but a significant segment of the Belter community considers that planetsider laws and rules do not apply to those who have to make a living in the 'real universe' of deep space.