# Dudin

The society of Dudin is what many citizens of the Imperium would consider an industrial dystopian nightmare. However, its people are by and large quite content with their lives. Dudinian culture is an extremist version of the Vilani caste system, made possible by large-scale cloning and genetic engineering. In traditional Vilani culture, individuals may choose their caste wherein they are apprenticed to a master who teaches them to perform a specialized task or skill. On Dudin, caste decisions are made by the Executive Bureaux, the bureaucratic institution that runs the planet and whose processes and procedures are remarkably similar to those of Makhidkarun, the Vilani megacorporation that once ruled this region of space during the reign of the era of the Ziru Sirka. While the influence of Makhidkarun is obvious to those familiar with the company, the origins of Dudin’s rather unique application of its culture and techniques has been lost in the annals of time. Dudin’s current modus operandi has been practiced since the dark ages of the Long Night.

Dudin strictly manages its population to ensure that there are approximately 60 billion inhabitants to work in its millions of factories. These factories range anywhere from massive industrial complexes, to small fabricators or home-based businesses. The planet itself is not easily habitable with only a very thin and tainted atmosphere and 80 percent of its surface covered in frozen water. Virtually all of its people live in arcologies or orbital habitats where they are packed in like lemmings. Over the centuries, Dudinians have been conditioned to live comfortably in such an environment. Furthermore, the nucleus accumbens, amygdala and prefrontal cortex of their brains have been altered to require less dopamine to achieve feelings of happiness and satisfaction. The result has been that no matter what their vocation, Dudians are almost universally content with what they do. When they are not engaged in labour, Dudinians become involved with a number of simple pastimes that unaltered humans would find trite or even boring. These activities enable them to comfortably operate in a society that offers little opportunity for upward mobility and requires them to engage in repetitive labour, day in and day out. Ironically, the primary products that they produce are electronics for complex and extravagant entertainment equipment that is used throughout the Core and beyond. Dudinians would find such devices overly stimulating, possibly even causing them physical pain. They prefer the simplicity of low-tech artistic, hobbyist or gaming pastimes that do not threaten to overload their pleasure centres.

While most live solitary lives, there are also families on Dudin, married couples who have children just like anywhere else in Imperial space; however, once born, children are subjected to a litany of genetic engineering procedures to ensure they ‘meet the standards’ of the Executive Bureaux. More often than not, they do; after all, the vast majority of them were born to Dudinian parents and ancestors who were genetically treated themselves. The Executive Bureaux does not actively encourage families since they do not need to. If the population ever drops off, they can manufacture as many clones as necessary to fill labour shortages. The larger factories use some degree of automation but the system is mostly based on human labour, not robotic. Most tasks performed by robots are those that are exceptionally dangerous or require greater strength or force.

Genetic mutations occasionally occur that make random Dudinians resistant or unsuitable for conditioning. These individuals are deported to anearby world where they are allowed to live out their normal, decidedly non-Dudinian lives. Eugenics are not practiced on Dudin. The elderly are allowed to age and remain a part of society, living out a comfortable, if dull, retirement; however, little in the way of healthcare is provided for them. Once their utility to the Bureaux has expired, Dudinian society sees little value in investing much to keep them alive.

