Sanches is a moon of the gas giant, Eniiluim. The gas giant is tidally locked with system primary, Khaslar, and Sanches is tidally locked to Eniiluim. However,Sanches orbits the gas giant once every 48.3 hours, giving it with a reasonably standard day-to-night cycle when light from Khaslar is not obscured by Eniiluim itself. Sanches’ proximity to Eniiluim and its other moons give the world complex tidal effects. Sanches is a cold world but not terribly so, except when in the shadow of Eniiluim. Its inhabitants can spend time outdoors with only a light covering during its ‘summer’, which occurs every few weeks because of Eniiluim’s rapid orbit around Khaslar. Sanches is the beneficiary of extensive terraforming that occurred during the brief reign of the Rule of Man. The world’s atmosphere was thickened and its hydrosphere enhanced by bombarding it with icy planetoids and cometary bodies in what were then desolate regions of the planet.

Sanches is run by a highly fluidic governmental structure in which its leading 25 corporations submit government officers to a body called the Board of Designates. The factors that constitute a leading corporation are many and coalesced by a complex algorithm. Profits are the key factor but consistency, public sentiment, fame, tradition, altruism and other factors are considered as well. The makeup of the board can shift from day-to-day – sometimes hour-to-hour – which results in transition times that humans, even with cybernetic enhancements, robotic assistance, expert programmes, high-speed transportation and other technological aids are not always capable of making. For this reason, the ruling corporations have AI designates who take interim control on their biological designate’s behalf. The period of interim control can be as little as a few seconds to several days, depending on the circumstances. The bottom rungs of the board are often held by corporate executives who do not believe they will have the position for long and therefore abstain from voting or participating in board events until their position has solidified or they lose it to the next designate. Others have jockeyed themselves into positions for months, sometimes even years, to have the opportunity to obtain a board position. It is sometimes considered to be a strategic move to allow one’s AI to occupy the position for a number of days or weeks in order to befuddle the competition. The top 11 board positions have been held by the same corporations for over a decade, although their order has shifted considerably. A tremendous amount of prestige is held by those designates who occupy the top five spots.

Artificial intelligence is anathema to most Vilani-influenced cultures but Sanches is a unique world. It was annexed by the Terrans late in the Interstellar Wars, oppressed by military rule for centuries and was the capital of a Solomani-dominated pocket empire during much of the Long Night. Even today, the more conservative governments of the Core chide Sanches for its willing enablement of AI for such an important role but it seems to work for them. The unique governmental structure establishes a kind of order that only a Sanchesian can truly appreciate. To outsiders, who cannot see the waves of change coming, events on Sanches appear to be unbridled chaos. For example, one day a given orbital starport might have access to certain services and resources and the next day it will not, all based on the fortunes of its parent company. Educated Sanchesians can see these changes coming and wisely invest their time and effort into facilities controlled by consistent board members and typically do not waste their time on the mercurial fortunes of corporations likely to lose their designations. Bottom-rung designates are known to offer certain complimentary services to help solidify their positions; therefore, by speculating on who the lower tier will be, one can obtain free refuelling and other services if they time the market right. The futures market in the corporations ranked 26–50 is alwaysactive with investors striving to pick the eventual  winners. One might make a fortune by buying the stock of a corporation just before they acquire a long-term position on the board.

The Imperial Navy and Scout Service both have bases in the system. Each service has administrative and recruiting offices on Sanches’ highport and downport but also have more extravagant bases on other satellites of Eniiluim. The main scout base is on the virtually airless rockball moon, Daashadkiu, a distant natural satellite known for its numerous active geysers, which spout methane effluvium high into its trace atmosphere. The naval base is an artificial satellite, a massive spherical structure that orbits the gas giant approximately 100,000km from Sanches.
