### 495-524

495-524 is an unclaimed and virtually uninhabited world, although it has the potential to support large-scale settlement. Its starport is hardly worthy of the name, being little more than a landing field located next to the world's only settlement. It is not clear exactly why this facility was set-up, but there is a known Ancients site a few kilometers away. It may be that 495-524 was settled by hopeful artefact-hunters but today the port is a small frontier town with virtually no industry. About half the inhabitants have 'always been there', as they put it, and call the town home. The rest are transients or have nowhere better to go.

The [[Ancients]] site is widely known but apparently picked clean many years ago. It consists of a set of tunnels running into a cliff face, with chambers deep inside the rock. They were emptied of anything movable long ago and whilst the occasional rumor surfaces of a hidden entrance to 'the rest of the ruin' these tales inevitably turn out to be false. The main importance of the ruin is that it brings bright-eyed greenhorns into the port from time-to-time, who can be fleeced by local guides offering lost secrets and great riches.

The world has a reasonable amount of mineral wealth and prospectors are not uncommon. The surface is pockmarked with the collapsed remains of strip-mines where offworld companies have moved in for a year or two, ripped everything out of an easily accessed vein of ore, then simply packed up and left. There are also rumored to be small settlements hidden away in obscure corners of the globe, home to corsairs, smugglers and outlaws.