
Keshi is the former capital of the Chanestin Kingdom, an empire of 25 star systems that lasted for nearly 1,300 years. The Chanestin Kingdom rebuffed both the Sylean Federation and its successor state, the Third Imperium, and ultimately engaged in a 100-year war with both empires. After losing the war, Keshi became the cultural and spiritual center of the Chanestin people and took on an unexpected role: antiquities collector. Fearing that their culture would be erased from the pages of history, the disenfranchised Chanestin nobility retrieved paintings, sculptures, manuscripts, archived holovideos and just about any other art forms and records that they could get their hands on from the former worlds of the kingdom. Entire bridges, towers, monuments and other architectural pieces were disassembled and transported to Keshi where they have been reconstructed for the public to marvel at. Over the centuries, Keshi amassed such an impressive collection of Chanestin Kingdom memorabilia that the world became a destination for millions upon millions of pilgrims from the other culturally Chanestin worlds. An ancestor and cultural fetish worshipping religion has taken the place of the monarchy that once ruled most of Dunea. The ruling authority on Keshi is a quasi-religious bureaucracy nown as the Curators. This shadowy group conceals their identities from the public but professes to redistribute the profits of their enterprises to the people. While Keshians are given a universal basic income, no one except the secretive Curator administration truly knows how much revenue is brought in or how equitably it is distributed.

Keshi has partnered with industrial Khea to capitalise on the pilgrimage and tourism industry, which brings in a large portion of Keshi's total wealth. Part of the appeal of Keshi to the Chanestin people is the world's unwillingness to accept Imperial authority. Keshi and Khea advocate the establishment of a Chanestin Worlds cultural zone and have actively stirred up insurgent groups on many of the kingdom's former worlds to help support their cause.

Those with Chanestin heritage are not the only interested parties. Keshi and other Chanestin worlds are a big tourist draw for foreigners as well. The unique art, architecture and culture appeals to many people from elsewhere in the Core and millions of them make pilgrimages to the region to see the world's wonders.
