This world has been called many things. During the era of the First Imperium, it was known as Gikhii Iis, roughly translated as 'desolation' or 'dry death', which makes sense considering that its original Vilani colony died out during the Long Night. The world was resettled during the Chanestin era, who maintained the tradition of giving it a Vilani name but subtly changed it to Khii Isis, meaning 'dry home'. There is a movement to change the world's name yet again to Ekal, which comes from the old Terran language of Hindi and means 'solo'. The majority of the world's current inhabitants are the descendants of Terran immigrants who came from the Indian subcontinent.

The Khii Isis binary star system features two nearly identical red dwarves that orbit a common center of mass. Khii Isis is in a tidally locked orbit around the slightly larger of the two stars but has an unusual day-night cycle due to its occasional proximity to the second star. When its orbit takes it close to the companion star, the normally dark hemisphere of Khii Isis is exposed to dim light, roughly equivalent to early dawn or dusk.

Khii Isis is host to a number of life forms, all of which presumed to have been brought to the world by Vilani colonists. The world itself is unlikely to have developed life independently although there have been no definitive studies that prove this to be the case. While there are no permanent bodies of water on the surface of the planet, Khii Isis has liquid water underground in artesian wells and aquifers, percolating to the surface due to tidal forces from the world's moon and companion star. The world's population expansion over the past few centuries has necessitated the drilling of hundreds of additional wells, co-located with the world's cities, towns and settlements.

After the Chanestin yoke was thrown off, the locals quickly evolved into an egalitarian and democratic society. Cities, towns, villages and even remote settlements are dependent on one another for survival in the harsh, dry climate of the world that has moulded Khii Isis into a society of equals. Elections are held for all government positions twice per year, which enables the people to quickly and easily toss out the old and usher in the new when things are not working. Voting age is 13, by which point the Khii Isisians are educated and well aware of the harsh realities of life on their world. Most citizens re armed and at least reasonably skilled in the use of guns and bladed weapons. The equality-oriented culture of Khii Isis had made its people intolerant of the nobility. While the world is technically under the administration of the Marquis Dauve-Oloi Dubois, he rarely visits Khii Isis, spending the majority of his time at his manor on Nadir or at [[Capital]].

One term of military service is mandatory for all Khii Isisian citizens after which most go into farming or resource extraction. Hardy outdoors-people sometimes become wilderness and safari guides for tourists who come to see the planet's stark and beautiful vistas, and hunt its unusual animals. The most elusive of these creatures is the [[Dunvic]], also known as the 'sandlion'.