
The fledgling Third Imperium made Uundizi the focal point of its efforts to pacify and integrate the worlds of the Chanestin Kingdom after defeating them. Uundizi has in many ways become a model Imperial society, having allowed the Chanestin to keep elements of their culture that do not pose a threat to the Imperium. The Uundizians attempted to create an environment in which the Chanestin might pull themselves up by their bootstraps during the era of postwar reconstruction.

Alas, there were those among the Chanestin who wanted no part of the brave new world that the Imperium offered and many emigrated from Uundizi to Keshi or Khea. Imperial citizens were urged to take part in the Uundizi project by coming to the world to help rebuild it and, despite the environmental challenges this posed, the idea had broad appeal. In the early days of Imperial history, many worlds in the Core were still recovering from the Long Night. Chanestin worlds like Uundizi had survived the era largely intact and provided a ready- made infrastructure for colonial development. In addition, Chanestin art and architecture was known throughout the Core for its beauty and intricacy.

Over time, the Chanestin who remained on Uundizi became fully acclimated to Imperial society and there is now no discernible difference between those who were there 1,000 years ago and the Imperial colonists who came after. After 10 centuries, there are very few genetically pure Chanestin, although many proudly delve into their family trees and proclaim native heritage.

Uundizian traders continue to reach out to Keshi, Khea and other Chanestin worlds but even after a millennium there is little enthusiasm to join the Imperium. Uundizi commerce primarily flows to spinward where trade with Ch'naar is strong and to trailing where Uundizi's high-tech wares compete with those of Saregon. Subsector Duke Halaris Olchetomi has been encouraged to invest in trade junkets to the ailing Basilling Cluster in Chant but has seen little in the way of profit there. The duke has a number of estates along the profitable route towards Ch'naar but only grudgingly visits the depressing and wayward Chanestin worlds to rimward.

Both the Imperial Navy and Scout Service have bases on Uundizi, which is indicative of its importance to the region. In addition to berthing the ships of the subsector fleet, the navy base is a bulwark against aggression from the Chanestin worlds. The flagship and its auxiliaries include troop transports should the Imperial Marines be required to keep the peace.

Uundizi orbits Oliphant, an enormous yellow giant star that has just begun its journey along the red giant branch towards an eventual core collapse and ype-II supernova explosion. Oliphant is orbited by Rive, a white dwarf companion with an eccentric orbit that takes it dangerously close to the primary every few thousand years, during which time it accretes mass from the swollen yellow giant. This has the potential to result in a type-Ia supernova. Neither of these events is expected to occur for millions of years but astronomers are studying the two stars closely to ensure this remains the case.
