
For reasons unknown, the highly inviting and habitable world of Zimmel was devoid of human life at the dawn of the Third Imperium. Vilani records discovered at Shiishuusdar (now [[#Reference]]) indicate this world was once called Riid and was the site of a flourishing colony during the era of the Ziru Sirka. It was overlooked by the Terrans as they made a mad dash through the sector during the Interstellar Wars, perhaps noting it on some chart for future settlement. The Third Imperium looked upon the world with envy but resisted the temptation to colonize it due to its proximity to the Chanestin worlds who also had their sights set upon it.

In an overture to the Chanestin, the Imperium granted a charter to the Salo Merchant line to establish a free trade zone on the planet that serves both parties. The Chanestin worlds and the Basilling Cluster of rimward Chant have long been economically depressed. The subsector duke at Uundizi gladly accepted the Salo proposal in the hopes it might serve the dual purpose of reviving Chant and drawing the reluctant Chanestin into the Imperial fold.

> [!info]+THE SALO LOGO
> The logo of Salo merchant lines is one small orange star and two large stars, one red and one orange, representing the stars of Zimmel, Gandar and Shaaram. Orange bars connect the stars to each other. Salo is a multi-subsectorline with its foot in both Dunea and Ch'naar.  While its logo is intended to express the corporation's desire to unite the two subsectors, there is little evidence that either side embraces the notion. Dunea is largely a refuge for the Chanestin worlds and Ch'naar is under the direction of the decidedly anti-Chanestin Aursisians. The two sides often scoff at the blind idealism that the logo represents but Salo has stuck with it thus far.

Zimmel has no government or law to speak of as Salo is built upon principles they call egalitarian individualist anarchy. It is libertarian in economic spirit but culturally driven toward fair and equitable distribution of wealth. While the two concepts are seemingly opposed, Salo makes it work by using technology to ensure that the lower classes are always provided for. The system seems to work even if it causes some grousing among the merchant class who sometimes let slip feelings that it is they who provide the wealth and therefore they who should reap all benefits. Since business is booming, there is plenty of wealth to go around and such grumbling is mostly swept under the rug. However, should Salo see a slowdown at some point, there is concern that the entire system could break down.

To ensure the continued viability of the experiment, Salo has linked their operation to the vibrant economy of Ch'naar. A few decades ago, Salo purchased Gandar, the largest moon of the neighboring system's only gas giant. Salo upgraded Gandar's starport, invested in a fleet of automated gas giant-skimming drones and converted the port into a refuelling station for traders who make their way to and from Ch'naar. While the move has significantly enhanced their fortunes, Gandarians have not entirely taken to the egalitarian anarchy concept and broken ranks with their parent world. Gandar has more of a freewheeling frontier culture and without some degree of law and order, social structure tends to break down.

