
Anther is a vacuum world on the coreward periphery of Chant. The system has poor resources but is strategically located on the Sylean Main and has five gas giants, which makes wilderness refuelling easy for visiting Travellers. The system primary is an orange subgiant, an immense star that has begun its long transformation process along the red-giant branch. While Anther is a small world, it is theorised that it once had a trace atmosphere and liquid water that evaporated away as its primary grew in size.

As the nexus of no fewer than six trade and communications routes, Anther is ground zero for the Chant Subsector Rejuvenation Project (CSRP). Its starport was recently upgraded to a sterling Class A facility, complete with cutting-edge shipyard and the best maintenance facilities in the subsector. The highport is a large facility, befitting its enviable location along the trade routes. The downport and adjacent startown are modern, aesthetically attractive towers with disc-like landing platforms and enclosed docking bays. Residential and hospitality facilities are contained in domes at the bases of each tower. Even before the upgrades to its facilities, Anther experienced a high volume of traffic and things have gotten noticeably better since the work was completed. Unfortunately, most ships are just passing through and that is a problem. People currently see Chant as a ‘highway’ of sorts, an obstacle to get through to reach more lucrative markets elsewhere. The Imperium wants to see more traffic going rimward where the benefits of trade might revitalise the subsector’s fortunes.

The CSRP has two key roles: economic evangelism and public relations, both of which are to be achieved by teams of administrators who flit about to the other worlds of Chant. The evangelism component seeks to entice the trader community to travel off the beaten path and go to worlds they might otherwise ignore. The public relations component consists of ‘Outrider’ teams, which go to the underserved systems of Chant and help them to become more attractive markets. Getting these systems to cooperate is often more difficult than one might think. The people of backwater worlds can become accustomed to their limited prospects and are often leery of offworlders who come to promise them a brighter future.

CSRP agents are frequently encountered while travelling through Chant, providing incentives for Travellers to take the rimward route to the subsector’s less-developed systems. Unfortunately, not all CSRP employees have Chant’s best interests in mind. As with many well-funded bureaucracies, corruption is an ever-present problem. CSRP accounts have been raided by embezzlers and hackers, many of whom have been given back-door access by insiders. While the problem has not yet gotten out of hand, if it gets much worse, it will begin to have a deleterious effect on the agency’s efforts. High-level officers at CSRP headquarters have been tasked with addressing the issue.
