
Chant has an unusual ecology that exists mostly underground in and around its extensive aquifers and underground reservoirs. These resources support thousands of troglodytic animal species, mosses and fungi, most of which never see the light of day. The majority of desert worlds have little in the way of atmosphere but Chant’s plant species employ photosynthesis to provide one that is 28 percent oxygen, 71 percent nitrogen with trace amounts of carbon dioxide and other gases. The plants wind their way upward through Chant’s porous crust to the surface where they protrude with large flowering surfaces to absorb the light of Ami, the system’s orange main sequence star. Chant has a slow rotation of 196.2 hours, making the local day well over a standard week long. Photosynthesis on Chant is based on retinal instead of chlorophyll, so most plants are purple, lavender and sometimes pink. Whichever side of the planet faces Ami is covered in flowering plant life, while on the dark side the plants retract into the earth to drink from its subterranean water sources. The higher oxygen level means that things catch fire more easily and burn longer. Lightning strikes from Chant’s eerie ‘dry storms’ burn desiccated plant life, creating sprawling wildfires that can last for weeks and are part of the planet’s cycle of life and death.

The sensitive ecology of the planet has been preserved due to a lack of large-scale exploitation. Chant has only small reserves of precious metals and has never been heavily colonized. Wave after wave of settlers skipped over the world, most of whom moved on to resource-rich Skeen and Raami. Chant is currently home to nine million inhabitants, most of whom farm its unusual and resilient flowering plants for export into foreign markets. The Duke of Chant has a home on this world but spends the majority of his time three parsecs away at Vvrin, the subsector capital, or at Capital, where he is an active participant in Moot deliberations.

Chant Downport is a high-quality but austere facility, designed to accommodate diplomatic visitors to the duke’s estate and tourists who come to roam the world’s deserts. The downport has only a few docking bays and is not equipped to handle large amounts of traffic. The Scout Service has a small administrative office on-planet, which sometimes hosts members of the Exploration branch who come to study the local flora and fauna. The shipyard and port authority are both located at the highport, a large facility that they share with the Scout Service way station. In addition to serving the needs of the Communications Branch, the way station also includes administrative offices where retired scouts come to pick up their Type-S scout/couriers. These ships are rarely given without also assigning a detached duty mission. There is plenty of work to be done in the subsector and retired scouts make an excellent auxiliary work force.

Chant’s low-key government is primarily concerned with the preservation and maintenance of the world’s delicate ecological balance but also manages the Civilian Service Bureau, an agency that provides services for the world’s nine million inhabitants.
