
Farhome is one of the failing worlds of the rimward cluster, evidenced by its poor starport quality, declining population and low Tech Level. This world was the site of a Solomani Colony that collapsed during the Long Night and a second colony that was established in 667. The second go-around got off to a fair to middling start, exploiting the untapped resources of both the mainworld and the system’s two planetoid belts. In more recent times, poor planning and subsequent financial struggles have slowly and painfully choked any prospects for success that the colony might have had. While some still eke out a decent living in the belts, those on the mainworld have become destitute. Most have eventually found a way off of Farhome but some descendants of the original colonists remain, living out a bleak and seemingly pointless existence.

If there is a silver lining to Farhome’s dark cloud, it is its invention of a musical style called altDirge. It is performed by a live band, usually with three to five musicians and always includes a bass drum, a high-pitched horn similar to the Terran suona and an accordion. A snare drum and acoustic guitar are usually included to complete the quintet with the accordion or guitar player at lead vocals. The lyrics of altDirge songs are about depressing things like the deaths of loved ones, barren worlds, financial ruin and unrequited love. The sensation has caught on at the Port Away and Rorpa Din systems as well. Top bands tour the interstellar region, making a decent living and raising awareness of the struggles of their respective homeworlds. The altDirge band No Prospects is currently making waves with the political protest song, ‘Take it as it comes’, which draws attention to the fact that some of their people have turned to piracy out of desperation. The song rather bluntly blames corrupt Imperial bureaucrats for their suffering.
