Traa has been mined by belters for thousands of years and its asteroids have been almost completely tapped of their precious metals. Most mining activity now occurs on the other planets and gas giant moons of the system where prospecting and extraction is more difficult. Traa is off the beaten path of the rimward main by one parsec, so its government has found other ways to make it a worthwhile destination. Its dozens of hollowed out asteroids, once home to millions of belters, have been converted for recreational use and now host myriad artificial habitats including zoos, spas, environmental simulations, amusement parks, urban settings with fine dining and opportunities for social interaction and 'pleasure asteroids', which promise experiences beyond Travellers' wildest dreams. Vacationers from industrial Raami and Skeen are frequent visitors.

The starport is housed in Kala-an-Vodi, Traa's largest planetoid. Its high-tech shipyard only manufactures civilian spacecraft and is known for producing many custom designs. Its financial success has garnered the interest of investors including the megacorporation [[GSbAG]], which has purchased a minority stake. Imperial authorities have expressed concern about the shipyard's willingness to install all manner of weaponry, stealth coatings and other typically military features on so-called civilian starships but has thus far resisted the temptation to intervene. The economy of the rimward main is already in a state of deep economic depression and the Imperium is reluctant to upset the applecart.
