### ASHASI

Ashasi has the highest population in the subsector despite it being a hell-hole with a highly dense atmosphere. Its underground cities are overpopulated and run-down for the most part, although the ruling elite live in splendour, a result of natural decline and economic downturn, coupled with self-serving decisions.

Ashashi was the subject of a 'gold rush' during early Imperial expansion into the sector, after the discovery of large deposits of both basic and rare minerals.
Some deposits were extensive, enabling large-scale extraction that opened up artificial caverns, which could have destabilized the surface above if not filled in or supported. Instead, they were extended and expanded, with structures built as both supports and living places.

As extraction efforts spread out and down from the original caverns, people moved in and began operating ore processing facilities and factories. These were naturally followed by shops, theatres and all manner of small businesses. One-by-one, the worked-out caverns were filled with people enjoying a good standard of living beneath the surface of their unpleasant world.

The good times went on for centuries, with Ashashi's extensive mineral exports and smaller quantities of finished goods funding expansion into new areas of the planet. Eventually, however, it became necessary to delve ever deeper to find viable deposits and production costs rose with each expansion. Ashasi enjoyed a renaissance based upon selling vast amounts of redundant mining and ore-processing equipment but this money was not spent wisely and when it was gone there was no prospect of transitioning to a different economic sector.

Today, Ashasi is run-down and insular, its starport allowed to decay to the point where it is barely worthy of the name. The populace are kept in line by a combination of propaganda and force, and the depressed economy helps the dictator maintain his popularity. Strict control of the job market and flow of consumer goods allows the elite to reward loyalty and punish those who do not toe the line.  A constant diet of propaganda paints the situation as a difficult time that the world can get through if everyone pulls together and vilifies dissidents as undermining the chances of recovery.

At present, enough of the populace are on board that dissent is low-key and easily dealt with but as conditions worsen and no sign of recovery presents itself there is a real danger that Ashasi's society may rip itself apart.  The Imperial authorities are aware of the situation but do not want to get involved in a potentially complex and dangerous situation. Besides, the [[Imperium]] does not involve itself in the politics of individual worlds unless intervention is necessary. At present, the troubles brewing on Ashasi do not threaten any other world or the security of the [[Imperium]] as a whole, so they remain the problem of the world's population. No Imperial noble or official wants to stake his career on a solution that has little chance of working.