### INAR

Inar is a tidally locked rockball planet, with one face permanently baked by its primary and the other exposed to the cold of space. Its trace atmosphere does nothing to alleviate the harsh conditions. It was colonized, like many similar worlds, for administrative and economic reasons, and targeted for rapid expansion of its mining and industrial sectors.

As a hub for local development, Inar was a logical choice for an administrative center and was eventually named as the subsector capital. Its population stabilized at around 90 million a long time ago, with the vast majority of permanent citizens dwelling in subterranean cities. There are some surface settlements, most of which are mining towns whose local population is supplemented by large numbers of contracted workers and their families. These are not counted among the world's population in most databases as they are workers, not residents.

As the seat of the subsector duke, Inar attracts petitioners, business representatives and hangers-on in large numbers. These are received at the Duke of Inar's orbital station, built at his own expense – sort of – as a subsector capital that was 'in the subsector rather than on the planet'. Supposedly this was a symbol of the duke's commitment to the affairs of his whole area of interest but the reality is more complex than that.

The orbital station is very grand and whilst it was indeed begun using the duke's own funds most of the money came from the Imperial Navy's budget. A political masterstoke enabled the duke to co-locate his orbital palace with the navy's projected base for the system.  As a result, part of the orbital fortress is private and controlled by the duke whilst most of it – including the heavy defences that all major naval installations have - is staffed by the navy. Essentially, the Duke of Inar conned the navy into building his palace and protecting it for him.

This situation is not to the liking of the Imperial Navy, partially because of the way its funding board was maneuverd but mostly because it places the offices of Naval Intelligence and a number of senior naval officers within easy reach of a subsector duke who constantly interferes in what should be purely military matters, and who has no qualms about using the navy in his schemes.
The duke makes use of the naval maintenance facilities at the base for his own ships, which are based out of the same structure. Whilst this is irregular, his influence is such that the navy has to indulge him up to a point.  Again, the Duke of Inar is getting the navy to pay for his possessions, which causes friction with other nobles who are not so favored. Naval attaches elsewhere find themselves defending this position, as the alternative is to acknowledge that they have been played by the duke.

Civilian traffic goes to the orbital starport, not the palace/naval base and only naval or ducal vessels may approach the palace. The port is extensive and well equipped to handle high-volume trade but every merchant factor worth his salt knows that the 'real business' goes on at the palace. The orbital port's business suites are fine for buying a few hundred tons of freight but if you want a big contract you have to get permission to set up an office at the palace, living the lifestyle and playing along with the duke's pretentions of being the sector, not subsector, duke. This was of course the real plan behind the orbital palace. It is fit for a sector duke or even an archduke, if the post of Archduke of Deneb is ever created. Naturally, the Dukes of Inar each intend that honor to be theirs.