### PECENA

Pecena is a habitable world, apart from the taint carried in its atmosphere, with a tiny population entirely restricted to a small town at what passes for a downport.
The reasons for this are shrouded in layer upon layer of bureaucratic obfuscation, with endless circular references to feasibility studies and pre-colonization investment forecasts. The reality is that the Imperial Army and Colonial Office have been fighting over Pecena for centuries.

Early in the expansion into Deneb, the Imperial Army sought a forward base at which to conduct large-scale training exercises. Pecena was at the time uninhabited and earmarked for development into a major base.  However, funds were diverted to other projects and work had not begun when the 20-year window for the project closed. The Colonial Office began to seek investors for a major settlement effort and made considerable progress when the Army derailed the project in the Imperial courts. Successive Emperors have ruled on the Pecena Question but neither side has the resources to stand ready to act the moment a decision is handed down.
Plans must be made anew and each time a renewed objection is made further wrangling begins.

Thus, whilst Pecena has an extensive orbital port with naval and scout bases present, there is only a token presence groundside. The population are citizen-employees of the Pecena Agricultural Corporation, which has license to operate robotic farms on the world regardless of what the Colonial Office or Imperial Army have to say about it. This license comes courtesy of the Imperial Navy, which wanted a reliable source of food for its orbital base and was not prepared to wait a thousand years for the Pecena Question to be settled.

In the meantime, the Imperial Army uses parts of Pecena for exercises. It wanted a major base through which personnel could be rotated but has to make do with a rather basic landing area surrounded by a permanently temporary camp. Live-fire exercises are common, with very powerful weapons deployed on the artillery ranges. The tough, thistle-like local vegetation has become a legendary nuisance among regiments using the training areas, with veterans having little good to say about Pecena's ecosystem.