
Idas is a full-fledged technologically reinforced police state that severely limits all aspects of its citizen's lives. Idasians are never allowed to leave the system and interstellar travel is limited to high-ranking members of the Ruling Council and the Sovereign himself, and then only with an oversized force of security officers. Council members are fitted with augments that enable them to communicate with one another using an encrypted neural network. Most communication is done sub-vocally, thereby enabling them to speak with each other in a virtually telepathic fashion. All conversations are recorded and analysed by data algorithms designed to spot rebellious thinking and nip such behaviour in the bud wherever it may exist. The augments are also fitted with brainwave suppressors that can be used by the Sovereign and high-ranking members of the secret police to render an individual unconscious or – in extreme cases – given a painful and fatal cerebral aneurism.

The Sovereign of Idas serves as the world's executive authority and is allegedly selected under the advisement of the Ruling Council. In fact, the role is solely appointed by the previous Sovereign – usually a male blood relative – but the ruse is propped up to convey the illusion that the Council has more power than it actually does. Upon selection, the Sovereign is ritually blinded and has his eyes replaced with cybernetic ones that supposedly enable him to see into the souls of his subjects. In fact, these glowing red eyes are the least sophisticated augments given to the dictator. After the ritual, the Sovereign disappears from public view for a few months, during which time a full array of TL14–15 augments are surgically implanted at a world with the desired technology on hand. With the sophisticated and highly specialized augments, he can indeed detect a great deal about those with whom he communicates, including whether or not they are telling the truth and whether they are favorably disposed towards the Sovereign.

Idas' roughly one billion citizens are equipped with internal devices at birth that track their whereabouts and record all of their experiences into a sprawling data substrate. These recordings are rarely accessed by law enforcement but the mere knowledge that they exist keeps most Idasians in fearful compliance. In addition, Idas likes to apply authoritarianism with a personal touch. All of its arcologies are panopticons, circular structures whose buildings are observable by a central listening and viewing post. With the technology available, the Idasian security apparatchik could perform all surveillance unobtrusively but, for whatever the reason, they prefer the populace to be acutely aware that they are being watched. Besides the secret police and intrusive surveillance technology, the people are controlled by the twin pillars of the Free Party of Idas and the Indenturate, a quasi-religious authority that harbours the belief that achieving perfection in one's works shall set them free in the afterlife. This afterlife is not spiritual but technological. After a life of labour, the sum total of one's recorded experiences are assembled as a unique identity and set free in a virtual world where none of the trappings of authoritarianism exist. Idasians spend copious amounts of their spare time editing out the experiences they would just as soon forget from their personal data troves, in preparation for the blissful experience that awaits them in a digital afterlife.

While TL12 is formidable, there is certainly higher technology to be had in the Imperium. The security apparatus on Idas is acutely aware of this fact and spends a great deal of its time worrying about 'infections' by higher technology. They are desperately afraid of what might happen should rebellious members of society – rare as those may be – obtain technology that enables them to thwart Idasian safeguards and expose the lies that prop up the ruling authorities. There are rumors of an insurgent organization known simply as 'The Anarchy' that seeks to do just that, although no actual proof of their existence has been found.

While the world is not interdicted, Travellers are advised to restrict themselves to the highport, downport and the rather pedestrian startown. Delving into Idasian society is not recommended as visitors have a bad habit of disappearing without ever being seen or heard from again.
