
During the Interstellar Wars, Ushba Sind fell under the jurisdiction of a Terran Navy sublieutenant who designated the world as a wildlife refuge for numerous animal species found throughout Dingtra. He noticed that Vilani exploitation had resulted in mass extinctions on many of its worlds and was determined to reverse the damage. His successors never managed to replenish the worlds of Dingtra with species that had gone extinct but they did convert Ushba Sind into a 'Noah's Ark' of sorts, with thousands of alien animals transplanted to its surface. Ushba Sind itself had no native life forms of its own but thousands of years of soil treatment and the application of other terraforming techniques had transformed the world into a viable home for a broad range of plants and animals.

The modern Ushba Sindi people are the inheritors of this conservationist approach. There are strict Vilani-style laws in place that protect the world's artificial habitats and severely limit the use of land for agricultural purposes. There is essentially just enough farmland to support the planet's 400 million sophonts with the remainder reserved for the animals. Where possible, these disparate groups of animals have been united into shared habitats, effectively creating new ecosystems out of groups of animals that have evolved on different worlds. Centuries of experimentation has resulted in a carefully cultivated balance. By the mid-350s, this arrangement had settled into a patchwork of separate governments, each of which was responsible for a distinct ecosystem. Unfortunately, nature has a way of expanding beyond its prescribed borders and some ecosystems expanded into others of their own volition. More often than not, this was not caused by human intervention but it nonetheless resulted in conflict. The Ushba Sindi possess no high-tech weaponry but brushfire wars between militias began to occur. Members of the Scout Service Exploration Branch were sent to the system in 752 to help remedy the situation. The scouts established an orbital supply depot and a ground base and worked with the Ushba Sindi to apply unobtrusive but high-tech solutions in order to carefully manage and prevent the encroachment of habitats on each other or – where possible – arrange for habitats to combine. When performing the latter, the scouts have also had to carefully merge their respective governments. There are 14 distinct habitats and associated governments remaining on Ushba Sind. The ultimate goal is to combine all of them into one worldwide ecosystem and government but there are many challenges to overcome before that would be possible and achieving this objective is expected to take many years.

The Ushba Sindi are decidedly low tech but have learned to use technology for the betterment of society. Sometime in the last century, they began to import a pharmaceutical treatment from Brangwen in nearby Fornast, which enables users to develop animal empathy. Users can customise the treatment to alter one's nervous system and that of an associated animal so the two species develop an emotional connection. This has enabled the Ushba Sindi to have an unusually close association with their animals whose needs they can then serve more effectively. Use of the treatments is widespread and has resulted in a noticeable societal change in which the Ushba Sindi see themselves less as citizens of various nations and more associated with the residential or migratory nature of the various species to whom they have become pharmaceutically linked. The scouts are closely monitoring these changes and are prepared to intervene as necessary.

While Ushba Sind is not an interdicted world, access to its surface is restricted and Travellers must typically go through a lengthy application process before they are allowed to visit. The Scout Service have set up an array of security satellites to prevent unlawful landings. The Duke of Kamsii has been known to expedite the application process for those who prove that their visit to the world is for altruistic purposes. Select traders have also been given access to the planet but they are usually limited to the market zone of Ushba Sind's austere downport.
