Gloire is a habitable world, with a standard atmosphere and sufficient water to support a large agricultural base. Some areas of the planet are arid and there are significant regions of semi-desert that have never been fully explored. There simply was no need; the population is small and can easily be accommodated by the best land, though this situation is slowly changing as settlements are created away from the main hubs. Even these are not being set up on marginal land; there are plenty of fertile river valleys and empty plains to develop before attention turns to less inviting regions.

Gloire is a colonial possession of Serendip Belt, which exercises strict control over the main population centres. This is one reason for the slow drift outwards, though as soon as a town gains a large enough population to be economically significant, Serendip officials arrive to take over. This is presented positively and accompanied by investment and improvement of services but many inhabitants of Gloire would rather do without the Serendip sponsored health center and school in favor of greater freedom.

Gloire is being developed into a breadbasket for Serendip Belt, providing agricultural goods that cannot be obtained in an asteroid belt. Large intensive factory- farms (known locally as ‘government farms’) surround small purpose-built communities run by Serendip personnel. These do little for the local economy; their produce goes straight offworld and generates no revenue as the farms are run by Serendip Belt. Most workers are robotic or technicians from Serendip, so there are no secondary benefits in terms of employment or salaries spent in Gloire’s shops.

The population of Gloire is wearily resentful of their status but can do little about it. Life is not hard and living conditions are good. A modest amount of dissent is tolerated and ignored, whilst active resistance is harshly punished. Gloire is a showcase of colonial administration in that sense – there is no need to make the people happy so long as they are not miserable and the price of resistance is higher than they are willing to pay.
