# Apge

At one time an important world of the First Imperium, Apge has experienced a tumultuous history. The fall of the Ziru Sirka caused a radical shift in the importance of various star systems. Apge weathered the storm by becoming an important stopover on the long route between Vland and Hub, the capital of the Rule of Man. During the Long Night, Apge reverted to its Vilani roots, declined to a lower Tech Level and adopted a more conservative culture.

A resurrected Vilani nobility returned to the practice of appointing the third-born child of the family as heir. This practice propagated to other tiers of society and resulted in a massive population boom. Under normal circumstances, this hallowed Vilani practice would precipitate the migration of first- and second-born offspring to other worlds, thereby serving as an engine for colonization. However, during the Long Night, migration was not an option. The population of Apge flowered without access to enough resources to easily provide for everyone. The management of food production and processing became of utmost importance on this marginally habitable world. Apge is tidally locked with Aseladar, its red dwarf star, and only its twilight zone has a mild climate with its bright and dark sides less so. Nevertheless, billions of people were forced to live in all regions of the world as well as numerous orbital and Lagrange point artificial habitats. Apgeans have also settled the majority of the system’s other worlds and even today a large belter community mines the planetoids of the Pukushkilaam Belt in the outer system, despite the fact that it has been largely tapped out from thousands of years of exploitation.

While Apge has once again arisen as a powerful interstellar high-technology society, it retains a disciplined and reserved culture. The advent of the Third Imperium resurrected Apge’s importance and its Vilani-style bureaucracy reinvented itself as a key link between Vland and Core. While members of Apge’s ruling class have accepted their roles as Imperial citizens, the world has maintained a distinctively Vilani flavour. Galanglic is universally spoken but Vilani is the language of choice when not engaging with offworlders.
