# Castell

Over 90 percent of the surface of Castell is covered by water. While its land masses are unremarkable and have only a few small settlements, its ocean floors are rich in valuable minerals and metals. For most of the world’s history, the majority of the population has lived in undersea arcologies. After a large seismic disturbance in 758, the Myteria-Seru arcology flooded and crumbled, tragically killing all 1.5 million inhabitants. To prevent a recurrence, the government established draconian laws governing all aspects of life in the world’s remaining undersea cities. Despite the overly rigorous laws, the world’s leader retains the confidence of his people. Citizens are educated from birth to respect the artificial environments in which they live and to believe that strict control of every action is necessary to ensure their safety.

The overzealous safety regulations have had an adverse effect on population growth. Among Castell’s many laws are some that strictly control reproduction. The goal was to maintain replacement level population numbers but instead they have seen a steady decline. A full 350 years after the accident, the population is approximately 10 percent of what it was. To prevent complete social and economic collapse, the government has begun to allow offworlders to immigrate to Castell, allowing them to build floating cities, mining submarines and establish a nomadic ocean-going culture. The one requirement is that they participate in Castell’s essential mining industries. The newcomers are virtually unrestricted by Castell’s high Law Level. The state-run media restricts the natives’ knowledge of how the immigrants live but some of them have found out nonetheless. The government is now engaged in a two-prong attack to set things right: on the one hand, they have redoubled their efforts to restrict the flow of information to the natives, and on the other they have begun to impose laws on the immigrants that they are loath to accept.
