
Maaruur is the largest moon and solitary habitable planetary body of the gas giant, Kaasgada. The moon once hosted a burgeoning industrial society of billions of sophonts, which had achieved TL9 by the mid-300s. In addition to its human inhabitants, the world was also host to a native intelligent species known as Shingans. The Shingans were hairy bipeds whose development was limited by their lack of dextrous appendages. Their graspers enabled them to create a primitive agrarian society but the inability to craft more advanced tools kept them at approximately TL1 when they were first contacted by the Vilani thousands of years ago.

Under the Ziru Sirka and Rule of Man, the Shingans formed a societal underclass, taking service and labour roles. They were an intelligent species and many resented the millennia of oppression at the hands of humans, whom they believed to be their equals. Progressive human scientists developed prostheses for the Shingans, which enabled them to do the same things as their human counterparts but the technology was outlawed during the Long Night, returning the Shingans to their traditional roles.

Despite their inability to craft items of technology beyond stone tools, the Shingans were a philosophical people who were very much in touch with their environment. In addition to consuming the plant and animal life of their world they cultivated a vast array of narcotics, which were consumed for medical, religious and recreational use. The effects of most of these substances were next to nil for humans but produced almost mystical effects in the Shingans. Scientific studies of these biochemical interactions were left largely incomplete but early research discovered that the Shingan biome extended heavily into their brain tissue. The various microbes living on the Shingan brainstem served as a biological middleman, catalysing much stronger effects than would otherwise occur.

During the early Third Imperium era, Shingan shamans discovered a rare natural substance that enabled them to commandeer the conscious mind of humans and other animals. Frequent usage of the substance eventually subsumed it into the cerebral biome of the Shingans to the point where they no longer had to imbibe it to achieve these effects. The shamans led the Shingan people in a revolt against the humans. It was theorized, but never proven, that the substance was only able to interact with the cerebral biomes of psionically talented Shingans. In 350, the Imperial Navy interdicted the world before the Shingans were able to export the mind-controlling agents. Five dreadnoughts were brought into the system, three of which orbitally assaulted population centres with particle weapons and mass drivers while the other two bombarded the planet with planetoids gathered from the system's belts. Maaruur was cleansed of virtually all life forms within weeks. The 1,300 people at the highport – 400 of whom were Shingans – were quarantined and examined for the presence of the dangerous narcotic. Those who were free of its effects were relocated to the Khaam system where the navy quarantined them for an additional period of time before releasing them into the general public. The 400 or so surviving Shingans were not a large enough sample to revive the race and are believed to have gone extinct within a few generations.

Today, Maaruur remains a desolate world, its atmosphere still tainted by the dust, gases and other effluvia of the bombardment. Although inspectors declared the world safe for recolonization two centuries ago, few people accepted the offer, even with generous subsidies.

So thorough was the bombardment that no cities were left standing. Maaruur was basically reduced to a primordial state. Nevertheless, salvage teams still come to Maaruur to pick over its bones from time-to-time. There is a great deal of superstition among spacers about Maaruur and what happens to those who disturb this worldwide graveyard.
