# Niizediju

The acidic air and high atmospheric pressure on Niizediju have made settlement of the planet challenging at best. For this reason, much of the population lives in orbital cities, Lagrange-point habitats and on the moons of its mainworld and gas giants. Those who eke out a living on Niizediju itself do so with the use of materials technology imported from Dana and Muudeshi. Niizediju is rich in petrochemicals and valuable rare-earth minerals but conditions on the planet make resource extraction difficult. Most of its cities are subterranean and linked by an underground rapid transit network. Habitats and factories on the surface are built with corrosion-resistant polymers and crystaliron alloys.

Niizediju has a highly transient population. Fully 40 percent of its people are offworlders who have come to make a living and then move on to greener pastures. For most, the supposed road to success has been paved with broken dreams. A large percentage of its population are living on the edge of financial disaster and reliant on the charity of its more well-to-do inhabitants, many of whom are loath to provide assistance. This has resulted in a financially stratified society with a great deal of tension between the social classes and the paralysed ruling council has done little to alleviate such problems.

The Viscount of Niizediju has been petitioned to come up with a long-term solution. Unfortunately, the good viscount spends most of his time at the Moot Spire on Capital, where he basks in the glory of being an Imperial noble. While he does spend about a quarter of each year on Niizediju, he has shown little interest in involving himself in local affairs. His offhand response has been to provide subsidies for traders and liners to take its financially challenged citizens and deposit them elsewhere. This has made him extremely unpopular with his neighbors and the factory chiefs of Niizedjiu itself who need a work force and do not want to send the wrong message to potential newcomers.
