Encyclopaedia Dagudashaag A
A Subsector - See MIMU Subsector.
AAB - See Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin.
Aadshas, Iiradu (3004) B57187A-A He Ph Pi { 2 } (A7B+4) [AA7C] BDe N - 200 3 ImDv M2 V

### First Survey Planetary Designation

Sharpi

Aadshas is a medium sized desert planet relying on nearby Dana for nearly all its food. The relationship is complemented by the production of much of Dana's farming equipment in the Aadshas factories. The population thrives in the many cities scattered across the planet. All of these are linked by super-fast rail systems making movement around the planet very quick and easy. As a result (and due to the first inhabitants' nomadic tendencies) the population is highly mobile and only relatively few stay in one place for long.

Industry relies on cheap labour, which is plentiful as the nomadic subclass is always willing to work for enough to enable them to fund their next move. Those few who can show intelligence and/or dedication quite often become the commercial elite in places where continuity of existence is essential. All of the senior positions are filled by permanent staff who have settled in one city, yet they hold the lower-paid, transient workers in equal regard.

This nomadic tendency has led to the enforcement of rigid, even draconian laws. Because an offender might move on to another city within a day, the criminal justice system is very quick in its duties. Spot fines and, for serious crimes, mutilation or execution is common. Gaol is usually a punishment frowned upon by all. The civil justice system, however, is more akin to the adage ‘ownership is 9/10ths of the law'. Those with property they wish to keep, employ guards; those without - and there are many - don't worry about such matters. This emphasises the divisions within the society between those who ‘have’ and those who wander.

There is a naval base on Aadshas. This is a major starbase, home to many large craft. Political reasons keep the base on Aadshas instead of nearby Dana. Lacking the latter's twin gas giants, the Aadshas base and orbital facility rely upon fuel 'cracked' from the world's oceans, with transports continually flying fuel up to the orbital port.

Aakhri Empire, The A pocket empire formed in the Argi Subsector during the Long Night. Argi, Argi (1431) had initially been settled by a number of lesser Vilani noble families who had established a major industrial base on-planet. Argi had survived the Solomani invasion more or less intact but most of its work force had been drafted into the Sector’s defence forces during the last few years of the war and only a few ever returned. During the Rule of Man, the Jiang Kai-Shi family was appointed Imperial Governors to Argi. Despite their cultural differences, the governing family and the Vilani nobles found they had a great deal in common – mainly avarice, greed and ambition. Together they secretly worked to create a personal stellar empire for themselves in all but name. It was the second Marquis, Chang Li who was responsible for encouraging millions of Asian immigrants to move to Argi Subsector. To aid the exodus, Marquis Chang Li used his personal fortune to build a substantial fleet of transports, which were used to bring the indentured workers from Earth. The ‘colonists’, many of who had been extremely poor back home travelled to Argi by low passage, packed together like cargo in their thousands. The survival rate was abysmal and the survivors found on being thawed out that their so-called ‘free passage’ had to be paid off by a life of indenture. Together the Vilani nobles and Clan Jiang Kai-Shi helped Argi Subsector to once more become an industrial powerbase in the region. Then the Long Night arrived. At first, fearful of reivers, the Argian nobles kept a low profile in the region. Clan Jiang Kai-Shi and the Vilani nobles (in particular the Luii’khen family) intermarried. Over the centuries of isolation, the main language changed from Vilani and Mandarin Chinese to a hybrid language known as Aarani, which used Chinese pronunciation and characters to transcribe Vilani words. By –477 the Argian nobility, now calling themselves Aakhri (Aarani: ‘noble of spirit’) had decided to use its mothballed fleet to conquer its neighboring systems. Using the surviving stockpiled transports the Aakhri nobles and their slave bondsmen attacked Lumnu, Argi (1432). Page 7 Encyclopaedia Dagudashaag The technologically superior Aakhri forces quickly conquered the system and enslaved its people. Thousands of Lumnu were sent back to Argi to replace the bondsmen turned soldiers. So successful had the campaign been that the Aakhri fleet (which was composed of jump-2 ships) went on to conquer a number of planets in Argi, Sapphyre and Remnants. As the ‘empire’ grew and the Aakhri nobility became ever more decadent it became more and more dependent on its slaves to run its affairs. The classic image of the Aakhri Empire is of an Aakhri noble sprawled on his throne (Aakhri females were not allowed to hold positions of power) with his long hair and tattooed upper body surrounded by his body slaves. Then in –285 the Empire had its first major setback. Using drop-tanks, the Aakhri fleet attempted to conquer the Scanians of Akiva (0935). It failed. In part this was due to Akiva’s intense gravity and extreme weather conditions, but mostly it was the Scanian mind-frame which refused to be enslaved. By –283 the Aakhri had given up its futile attempts to enslave the Scanians and settled for a treaty allowing them to build a military supply base in the system. It was the beginning of the end. Although Aakhri ships had conquered as far away as Laraa Subsector, the Empire was already splintering as various noble families began to conquer distant territories not for the Empire but for themselves. Then in –155 war finally broke out with the Medurman Pact to Coreward. Tensions had been high between the two petty states since first contact had been made about –250. Border skirmishes had been common for over a century and although Slaver ships often crossed the Pact & Ushran borders in search of slaves, the two states had somehow managed to avoid major confrontations, until now. According to Pact records, the Pact declared war on the Aakhri because Pacters felt they could no longer put up with slavery on their borders. Interestingly Aakhri records claim that war broke out because Premier (later Regent) Ivan Viirsarikaa refused to take the elderly Princess Tai’o Lui Ch’en as his second wife as part of a peace treaty. Whatever the reason, war broke out. At first the Aakhri seemed to be gaining ground, however a number of slave revolts deep within their territory prevented them from making the most of their advantage. By –102 the war had turned and Pacter warships were attacking Aakhri colonies throughout the Empire. In –76 the first of several short truces was agreed to allow both Empires to recover ready for yet another assault on each other. By –40 both Empires had been economically shattered by the prolonged war but they refused to lie down and die. The Aakhri Empire had begun to break up with each of the noble families’ openly claiming large tracts of territory for themselves. A number of planets had been liberated by either Pacter troops or had openly rebelled against their Aakhri overlords. By -10 the Aakhri Empire had finally been forced back to the Argi system but the action had economically over-extended the Pact. In –06 Argi itself fell when the slave classes once more rebelled, this time successfully. The few Aakhri on-planet, who survived, were themselves enslaved. Only on a few scattered colonies did the Aakhri survive. Others, who had fled the rebellion on Argi, took to a life of piracy. When the Imperium arrived in 40, there was little resistance and the region was quickly absorbed. During the pacification campaign, Argi itself was placed in the hands of Solomani Tai’Pan (merchant princes) who, over the next two centuries, managed to rebuild the planet back into an industrial powerhouse. -1,055 the term Aakhri first used in official government documentation - 477 Aakhri Empire conquers Lumnu, Argi - 476 Aakhri begin campaign to conquer all Jump-1 accessible systems around Argi - 285 first attempt to conquer Akiva, Argi using drop-tanks c. –250 Aakhri Empire comes in contact with Pact - 183 Aakhri finally accept that they cannot conquer Akiva and agree to a treaty - 155 the Aakhri-Pact war finally breaks out - 102 several Aakhri slave worlds are liberated by Pact - 76 first of several truces agreed to allow both Empire’s to recover - 10 Aakhri in Argi Subsector are forced back to the Argi system - 9 blockade of the system is enforced by Pact - 6 Aakhri Empire on Argi falls to slave revolt. Aaki, Shallows (0213) B434553-D Ni { 1 } (C45-2) [262A] B - - 123 9 ImDv G7 V First Survey Planetary Designation: Arker Ig The original Lancian colony on Aaki was almost completely decimated in 78 during the Vilani pacification Campaign and thousands of Makhidkarun colonists were resettled on the world. Page 8 Encyclopaedia Dagudashaag Aaki however, failed to make an impact as an industrial base and, rather than pull out, it was finally decided by Makhidkarun to use the planet as their local financial and administrative debt collecting capital for the Sector. Today Aaki-Makhidkarun Financial Services is the primary financial factoring agency in Dagudashaag. AMF offers consumer data analysis, finance checks and debt collection to all the major agencies throughout the sector. While AMF maintains offices at all A & B ports within Dagudashaag, Aaki is still their main data processing center and the port is maintained primarily for servicing AMF's own jump-6 courier network. Aalimru, Sapphyre (2239) B430451-E De Ni Po { 1 } (934-3) [151A] B N - 303 13 ImDv F8 V M6 V First Survey Planetary Designation: Risii Aalimru is an Imperial Navy proving ground. The Starport and navy base is on the furthest moon of Gla, the largest gas giant in the system. Navy ships are undergoing constant maneuvers in the system and war games are common. As a result, all ships passing through the system must be escorted by a Naval vessel to and from Aalimru and must stick extremely closely to their in-system flight plan for their own safety. This escort ‘exercise’ allows the Navy to keep a close watch on all privately owned ships that pass through here "Just as a training simulation". If there is anything else going on in this system it is extremely well hidden. CyJac ‘13 Aam, Old Suns (1604) C562224-9 Lo { -1 } (711-3) [1137] B - - 403 12 ImDv K9 V M0 V First Survey Planetary Designation: Nuunzaaind Aam was another Vilani settlement that was forcibly resettled by Solonani immigrants, mainly from Australia and New Zealand, during the Rule of Man. The planet was a wilderness paradise. However, the planet was lacking in mineral wealth and was not suitable for large-scale agriculture. With a great deal of hard effort, it was possible to farm enough of the rocky soil for the colony to survive. Unfortunately civil war broke out between the Ozii and the keiwi settlements during the Rule of Man which resulted in the use of atomic weapons. Within hours both settlements were wiped out and Nuu’Zaaland was left a radioactive wasteland. Over the centuries, the background radiation level returned to acceptable levels and in 3 the Kimalad Collective annexed the planet. Since then, a number of attempts have been made over the centuries to recolonize the planet and, although most have failed, several scattered colonies have managed to survive, scratching a living from the rocky soil. In 1108 a research team of Hamaran Hachar Gyasö (racial archaeologists), working from ancient records, uncovered a crystal Stöpuen or funeral casket in the keiwi ruins, which contained an ancient Hamaran mummy. Although the body has not been officially identified the Gyasö believe that they might have found the remains of the 23rd Tä Gyasu (prophet). Many Hamaran believe that Tä Husa Hiä, who led the Hamaran exodus from Tethys during the Ushran war, refused to be sky buried off Tethys and demanded his followers place his mortal remains in a Stöpuen until such t ime as his people could return home. The Hachar Gyasö are currently examining the casket and its remains in the hope of positively identifying its occupant, as only the holy are allowed under Hamaran law to be returned to Tethys. Many Hamaran believe that humans must have found the casket and taken it back to the keiwi settlement on Nuu’Zaaland as a souvenir after the Hamaran exodus had moved on. Aarani, Language of Aarani is mainly spoken throughout Argi and Sapphyre Subsectors. It is related to Old High Vilani, and includes many Vilani words and phrases. Those fluent in Vilani often find that they can communicate, albeit with some difficulty, among native Aarani speakers. Aarani was the language of the Aakhri (or Slaver) Empire, and although it is still widely spoken, most people prefer to use Galanglic or Vilani when in polite company. Aarani often used Chinese pronunciation for Vilani words, e.g. the Aakhri High Family, Luii'khen, became Lui Ch'en in Aarani. The Aarani pronounciation has survived in the way many non-Vilani Sector inhabitants pronounce (and write) Vilani words. Example: 'I chu'shi shacukuan chula'shir asii' Translation (Vilani): 'Isazii shagukarun gulashbir asi' Translation (Galanglic): ‘only inferior rulers must prove their superiority.'
