### LIRAN

Liran is a mining colony. The 'mainworld' is a dwarf planet correctly named Liran Central but usually just called Liran. It lies on the outer fringe of one of the system's two planetoid belts; both are extensively mined, with semi-permanent facilities on some of the larger bodies and temporary camps or mining ships moving from one promising strike to another.

Liran has some industry of its own but most of the produce from its mining industry is shipped out aboard bulk freighters. These are well protected but corsairs have been known to prey upon smaller craft using the port or mining ships in the belts. Liran has another hazard as well; it is infested with Clambreys. These creatures are not native to Liran and cannot survive on its airless surface, although they can hibernate in vacuum for an extended period. It is likely that Clambreys got into Liran's disused mine tunnels after hitching a ride aboard a starship from another infested world. Once established, they can be very hard to root out and Liran's Clambrey problem is no exception.

The origin of this creature's name is obscure but is probably the result of some spacer's attempt at a play on words. Clambreys are crustacean-like creatures with an extremely hard outer skin. They are surprisingly agile and can clamber (hence the name, possibly) onto a spacecraft without difficulty, although also without much in the way of grace or elegance. The typical Clambrey is about the size of a large dog, with deep-set eyes and chitinous plates protecting most of its body rather than a true shell. They have six walking/climbing legs and two manipulator pincers.