### BALZAC

Balzac is notable mainly as the site of the Battle of Balzac, where the last of the Humbolts' capital ships were brought to action and destroyed. Losses were heavy on both sides and although some minor forces did survive, the Humbolts' power was broken.  The wrecks of several cruisers and destroyers, and even a dreadnought, can be found on the planetary surface. Critical systems were removed, along with all the bodies that could be recovered, but there is still salvage to be had by those willing to risk Imperial displeasure for desecrating a war grave.

Balzac was the origin world of an amphibious race dubbed "Crocodiles" by humans for their resemblance to the [[Terra|Terran]] creatures. Little is known about these people, including their name for themselves, as they became extinct long before the rise of the First | | [[Imperium]].  Connections have been made with other, vaguely similar, races across Charted Space but no evidence exists that the Crocodiles of Balzac ever left their homeworld.  Artefacts indicate a low-tech society that apparently remained stable for many centuries before suddenly collapsing. Extinction followed within a few hundred years, although the reason is unknown. The best working theory is that the Crocodiles' population was reduced below the survivable level by disease, destroying their civilization, the survivors eventually dwindling away to nothing.

A long year results in a roughly 150-day monsoon, followed by around 450 days of very dry weather.
The wet season can completely change a region, with vegetation appearing at an incredible rate and large carnivores coming out of hibernation to gorge on the riotous herbivorous life for a few weeks. Both predators and prey breed frantically and stock up on food before returning to their burrows when the rain stops. Within a few weeks, only twisted, desiccated and apparently dead vegetation remains.