### ATSAH

Atsah is the seat of the Duke of Atsah and the subsector capital. It is a garden world, very suitable for habitation, but has a relatively low population considering its importance, the result of a deliberate policy restricting immigration and encouraging citizens to move offworld by keeping the cost of living high. A guaranteed-income system ensures that those who choose to emigrate are paid at levels appropriate to Atsah's expensive society, even if they are living somewhere much cheaper.

The money for this comes from the subsector budget's social development funds and is extremely contentious.  However, the policy is kept in place by regular bargaining sessions, in which one hoped-for reward is permission to move to Atsah with its very high standard of living – with an expenses subsidy from the subsector budget of course.

The population includes around 55 million Vargr and 15 million members of other species, most notably humans. The majority of the population is concentrated in large, high-tech cities but there are extensive country estates and small towns scattered all over the planet.  The former typically belong to those who have served the duke or subsector administration well and may be held in perpetuity or only as long as the duke's favor is retained. The towns are mostly agricultural centres providing a modest income from exports.

The subsector administrative center is a small city in its own right, located in beautiful countryside with recreation areas nearby. Some of these are restricted by rank or special privilege; others are open to anyone. The duke lives at the heart of this administrative complex, which has its own spaceport manned by the duke's own household forces. Everything about the city – and the orbital starport – is designed to impress and subtly (but not too subtly) remind visitors just how powerful Atsah is. From neat rows of smartly uniformed guards on parade during the duchy's many ceremonial occasions, to ducal frigates passing overhead as they proceed towards their landing at the spaceport, Atsah's capital is a showcase of power and splendour.