From [[Tripwire]]

[[871–438]] [[871–438]] 0710 E700000–0 0710 E700000–0 Ba NI GBa NI G This barren world has little of interest but its location and presence of a gas giant has made it popular with pirates and smugglers. The Imperium is reluctant to dedicate resources to patrolling this backwater world because the pirates simply go elsewhere. Full details can be found on page 34 (Conspiracies).

This system has two asteroid belts but they have too few minerals to be of interest to belters. The planet 871–438 is the third planet from the sun. There are also two gas giants and an Oort cloud in the system.

871–438 0710 E700000–0 Ba NI G This barren world has nothing of interest and is one of the few places that have never even been considered for colonization. For administrational purposes, it has simply been given the numerical identifier, 871–438.

However, its location and presence of gas giants in the system has made it popular with various criminal elements. During the Second Frontier War, whilst the [[Imperium]] was busy fighting the Zhodani, 871–438 became a haven for pirates and smugglers. A rudimentary starport was built to facilitate illicit meetings and illegal trades.

Its distance from any civilised worlds meant that it fell under the Imperial radar for quite some time but eventually the lawless world caught the attention of several nearby systems. There have been several attempts to patrol the area by both Imperial and local system forces but the smugglers simply moved their operations elsewhere. The costs in maintaining a permanent patrol were too high with no resulting arrests so eventually the idea was abandoned.

There are no permanent residents on 871–438 but there is usually a gathering of people and ships engaged in various unlawful activities. Some ships stay just to conclude a deal whilst others stay for several days, either to lay low, rest or wait for their customers.

# ATTITUDES

The people here are criminals of varying degrees and tend to be hostile to newcomers. Introductions are usually made at the barrel of a gun, especially for those without a reputation in the criminal underground. There is also rivalry between some groups and fights here are not uncommon. When they are not fighting, most regulars drink and gamble together to pass the time.

# LAWS

Anyone can land on 871–438 and there are no legal restrictions.

# PLACES OF INTEREST

## Starport

The only place of interest is the starport, which is nothing more than a landing beacon on a flat area of land.
