Depots are the focal points of the Imperial Navy base system. There is one Depot per sector (except at Delphi, where there are two, and the Spinward Marches, where there are none). Depots contain massive shipyards and maintenance facilities, support services, administration centres, housing and recreation facilities, technical services and training grounds for naval personnel.

The system mainworld of the Depot system is called Depot Prime. Depot Prime is special because it is a world that was touched by the Ancients. While there are no Ancients sites present in the system per se, they left their indelible mark on the planet. Hundreds of thousands of years before this world was named Uugnii by the Vilani, it was terraformed by the Ancients. Extensive research has revealed that it was once a large rockball world from the outer system. The Ancients somehow moved it into the habitable zone, made its core spin to give it an electromagnetic field that it previously lacked, got it rotating so that it has a 36.7-hour day and brought in enough water to cover it with oceans and gases to give it a standard atmosphere. Scientists theorize that the project was incomplete. Evidence indicates that they may have been preparing to thicken the atmosphere further and activate tectonic plates so islands might emerge out of the ocean depths. Perhaps the Final War of the Ancients interrupted the project or maybe they just moved on, leaving the world unfinished. Whatever the case may be, they somehow managed the titanic task of creating a spinning, habitable world where there once was none.

Vilani priests believed the world was sacred and prevented large numbers of people from colonising it. The religion that protected Uugnii died out during the Long Night, leaving a remnant population behind. After rediscovering the world, the Imperium relocated the survivors so they could claim it for their own and make it into the first Depot of the Imperial Navy.

Depot system is the headquarters of the Core Sector Fleet. Most Sector Fleet assets are deployed elsewhere but a number of its battleships and dreadnoughts are always present in the system, even in peacetime. It is also the home of the Depot Fleet, which consists of three sections:

- Training Fleet – Formed of ships of the line that have been brought to Depot to train naval personnel in their use. Every type of ship in service to the Imperial Navy is present at one time or another. Training Fleet ships are on loan from both the Sector Fleet and numbered fleets, and typically return to service after a designated period of time. Common classes of ship (for example, mid-size cruisers) may see extended duty in the Training Fleet and remain in system for months or even years, as required. The Training Fleet also contains Adversary Squadrons, ships designated to play the role of enemy ships in training exercises. In most cases, these are Imperial Navy ships outfitted with weaponry, software and other elements to make them resemble enemy ships as best they can. In other cases, these are actual captured enemy spacecraft refitted for training purposes. Assignment to an Adversary Squadron is highly desired by members of the officer corps. Some of the most battle-ready officers of the line learned their craft by having served aboard the ‘enemy ships’ of an Adversary Squadron.
- Mothball Fleet – The last stop for many of the navy’s starships is the Depot Mothball Fleet. Ships are brought to one of Depot’s maintenance hangars for a thorough inspection, given preservative treatment and then designated for one of the following: refit and reassignment to a colonial or reserve fleet, the breaker yard to be disassembled for scrap, equipped with automation and used as targets in live-fire exercises or storage at one of several auxiliary facilities on one of the other planets or planetoid belts in Depot system. Assignment to storage usually means the navy is uncertain about quite what they want to do with the ship and that it requires more time to make the decision.
- Security Fleet – The alert and highly active Security Fleet defends Depot from all possible dangers. This fleet consists of system defense boats, jump-capable early-warning squadrons, decommissioned battle riders that function essentially as large SDBs and armored planetoid monitors. The latter are composed of planetoids drawn from Depot’s two belts and include some absolutely massive specimens. Depot-PM1A is a 1.5-million ton buffered planetoid, equipped with a top-of-the-line meson spinal mount. The planetoid is bristling with dozens of bays and turret weaponry as well. This and other planetoid monitors also contain multiple fighter wings.

Hundreds of space stations orbit Depot Prime and sit perched in its Lagrange Points. Most of these are hangars for Imperial Navy spacecraft and shipyards where the largest naval starships are built. Some stations are reserved for training purposes and contain simulators, vacc suit and EVA training grounds and zero-G firing ranges.

The navy’s primary administration, personnel and training facilities are on the surface of Depot Prime. While the world has no land masses to speak of, it does have many sea mounts that approach the surface of its oceans. The navy has built structures on these natural formations, most of which jut from beneath the ocean surface in domes and spires. The largest of these facilities is Depot Prime Downport, which includes an extensive surface area to land and dock naval starships and small craft. Depot Prime is also heavily laden with defensive structures ranging from missile batteries and point defense lasers both on its primary structures and on floating artificial islands scattered throughout its oceans. There are also multiple deep-site meson guns implanted at confidential and highly secure locations beneath the ocean floor.

Life at Depot Prime can be a pleasant experience during peacetime. While there is always work to be done, shore duty is also a time to take a break from long tours aboard a naval starship. Living in one of the world’s many residential districts or artificial islands, one might even forget they were in the navy if not for the uniforms, flyovers and the blinking lights of the shipyards and space stations in the night sky. Extensive recreational facilities are present for naval personnel on liberty and all sorts of entertainments and services are available. Over the centuries, the oceans have been stocked with fish and other sea life and fishing excursions are a favorite pastime.

Despite the languorous aura at such facilities, the navy does its best to ensure productivity and engagement among its staff with frequent reminders that a return to active duty is never far away. Peacetime or not, naval Depots must be ever vigilant in spite of the fact that large-scale wars are few and far between. Should the Imperium ever go to war, its Depots will become contested battlegrounds.
