
The aptly named Hellhole has always been a difficult world to live on but also one that has been deemed worth the trouble. The planet has been stripped of its crust by multiple deep impacts over its long history, giving mining companies easy access to the exotic minerals and heavy metals in its exposed mantle. Unfortunately, its surface is teeming with radioactivity, which made it a deadly place to work during the era of the Interstellar Confederacy when its miners only had access to TL12 safety gear. Now under Imperial management, there are very few human miners on its surface with most of the work being done by high-tech radiation-shielded robots. Almost all of Hellhole's population lives on the close-orbit highport or one of its Lagrange-point processing and shipping centres. Mining activity is performed remotely by well-paid remote operations engineers who do the delicate work of extracting Hellhole's abundant resources from a safe distance of 1,000km.

While gifted with a placid, long-lived star, the entire Hellhole system has barely a drop of water or wisp of atmosphere on its 11 planets. With no gas giants or planetoid belts to speak of, ships cannot perform wilderness refuelling. Liquid hydrogen must be imported into the system, making it exorbitantly expensive. Travellers can expect to pay three times the standard price for fuel, all of which is refined at the highport.

The Revived Grand Senate on Sketola snaps up as much of Hellhole's product as it can using loans from the Achenaar Antilles Line. Sketola claims that these resources are used to maintain the Colonial Navy but the Imperium has begun to cry foul. There simply is no way that all of the extracted materials could be put to use by one provincial navy, or so the Imperium believes. Auditors from the Office of the Exchequer have descended upon Hellhole to make sure nothing is amiss.
