The Meritocracy of Irlu purportedly uses a nonpartisan selection process to identify and appoint the best-qualified sophonts among its population to fill its administrative and governmental positions. Like so many other corrupt bureaucracies, its levers have been usurped by those in power to obtain roles for selected allies and family members regardless of their qualifications. While the selection process still manages to see to it that some of the cream rises to the top, the system has become so corrupt that many of its offices and institutions have been rendered utterly ineffective.

One of the organizations that does seem to work rather well is the Office of Mercenary Affairs (OMA). Due to unusual circumstances, the OMA was tasked with the coordination of defense forces for nearly all the worlds of Bunkeria. When the Interstellar Confederacy was integrated into the Imperium, the armies and militias of its member worlds surrendered their arms and were occupied first by Sylean forces and later by the Imperial Army.

The young Imperium was unable to sustain the occupation and sought to return Bunkeria's pacified worlds to local control. During the Confederacy Era, the world of Marsus was a renowned exporter of mercenary forces. Unfortunately, Marsus had fallen on hard times after fighting on the wrong side of the Civil War. Even after its decline, Marsusian mercenaries remained some of the best-qualified fighting forces in the subsector. The Imperium imported the best and brightest mercenary commanders from Marsus to Irlu where they were given the daunting task of guiding the worlds of Bunkeria to military self-rule. In fits and starts, they gradually accomplished their goal. Early contracts were given to trusted mercenary companies but as the scope of the job became larger, they were eventually forced to recruit talent from neighboring subsectors. Over time, the practice of employing professional soldiers to serve in its worlds' armies took hold.

The OMA had help, of course. The management of a subsector-wide bureaucracy was a bit beyond its expertise. Enter: Instellarms, the megacorporate buyer, seller and manufacturer of weapons systems. As the leading provider for mercenary companies throughout the Imperium, Instellarms was eager to become involved in the OMA. In return for sponsorship, the OMA gets reduced prices on all gear it requires as well as favorable lease terms for Broadsword-class mercenary cruisers to transport troops.

While the practice of employing strictly mercenaries is anathema to most worlds of the Imperium, it seems to work in Bunkeria. Its mercenary forces exhibit a high level of professionalism and have become sought after outside the subsector. The vaunted OMA Seal of Approval is given to the best mercenary companies, a practice which thus far has not been corrupted by Irlu's disingenuous meritocracy.
