Lalandra was the headquarters of the feckless Interstellar Confederacy Naval Administration. Proud naval historians have often sought to paint a rosier narrative of the Confederacy Navy, one which seeks to cover up the fact that in the hour of need, it utterly failed to perform to expectations. In reality, the navy was a microcosm of the Confederacy government: a disjointed collection of organizations intended to cooperate with one another but which were incapable of doing so when it mattered most. Regardless of the truth, the Lalandra Museum of Naval History is a popular attraction for both Bunkerians and foreign tourists alike. It includes two departments: an indoor facility located in one of the Lalandra Belt’s largest planetoids and ‘The Shipyard’, a large collection of now ancient naval starships that have been arranged for the viewing pleasure of its visitors. Tourists may spend days or even weeks, travelling from ship-to-ship. Most have been restored to resemble their original states but some have been deliberately left as wrecks. Two of the most popular exhibits in the naval museum are the cryogenically preserved body of Admiral Moshe Halfview – the cyborg military hero credited with quashing the rebellion at Sketola – and the _Exatar_ , an espionage ship that used unique ‘ramscoop’ technology.

In addition to its normal duties, the Lalandra Scout Base has liaison officers who work with the local ship- building industry. Some of the scouts’ most advanced craft are assembled here, including advanced versions of its _Suleiman_ - and _Donosev_ -class starships. For years, the Colonial Naval Administration on Sketola has sought to expand Lalandra’s facilities to include the construction of naval vessels but they have been turned down by the Imperial government thus far. If anything, Sketola’s frequent entreaties only make the Imperium more nervous about Bunkerian naval independence. While their TL13 Colonial Navy is of little concern to the Admiralty, the thought of giving Bunkeria access to a TL15 shipyard is not one they are willing to entertain.

> [!info]+ HIGH GUARD: RAMSCOOP (TL12)
> Ramscoops are passive hydrogen collectors that operate automatically whenever a starship is manoeuvring in normal (non-jump) space. Ramscoops require several weeks of continuous operation to obtain enough hydrogen to fill the tanks of a typical ship. The ship must be actively manoeuvring during this time, which enables the ramscoops to extract hydrogen from the interstellar medium. Ramscoop ships do not have fuel scoops, nor do they have fuel processors since the hydrogen is processed and purified as it is collected. The advantage of this technology is that it enables a starship to make as many jumps as desired without ever visiting a starport or gas giant for refuelling purposes.
>
> Ramscoops require one percent of a ship’s available tonnage plus five tons, with a minimum overall size of 10 tons and can collect five tons of hydrogen per week for every ton attributed to the ramscoops. Additional tonnage may be added as desired. Ramscoops cost Cr250000 per ton.
>
> The typical configuration for ramscoops is an array of cylinders or similar structures fitted on the exterior of a ship, co-located with its fuel tanks. Because of the bulkiness of the collectors, ships outfitted with ramscoops cannot perform atmospheric re-entry without damaging the ramscoops and are therefore rarely streamlined. If the ship is docked or otherwise immobile, ramscoops cease to function but will automatically resume operation once the ship starts manoeuvring again.
>
> While ramscoops were an innovative use of technology by Interstellar Confederacy engineers, were ultimately deemed an inefficient use of space and are rarely seen in service.
