---
date created: 2024-08-30 14:48
aliases:
  - Humbolts
---
The Humbolts were Imperial nobles of [[Solomani]] descent, with a track record for competence and intelligent leadership. They were, according to most accounts, out of favor at the time and requested to be assigned to [[Vincennes]] as part of a deal whereby they avoided censure for some failure or perhaps implication in a plot against the Emperor. Other versions of the story claim the Humbolts were clear-eyed heroes who went into what was effectively exile because it was in the best interests of the [[Imperium]] that they secure Deneb sector. There are also some distinctly whacky conspiracy theories about ancient artefacts, psionic knights and a centuries-long masterplan on the part of the Humbolts, the Emperor or both.

Whatever the reasons, the Humbolt family came to [[Vincennes]] with a great deal of capital to invest and quickly led the world into an explosion of economic and technological progress. They were sufficiently powerful that whole worlds could be assigned to a particular function – the [[HRD]] system derives its name form Humbolt Research Division and was a cornerstone of their early success.

Eventually, at the end of the time when the [[Civil War]] turned 'bad',  in [[IY622]], the newly appointed regent [[Arbellatra Alkhalikoi|Arbellatra]] ordered the fleets of the warring factions in Deneb to stand down.  The [[Humbolt family]], Dukes of Vincennes and at one point almost rulers of the entire [[Deneb Sector]], refused. The Humbolts were eventually chased down and their fleet destroyed in 628, although there are those who claim that the last stand was in fact a clever ruse. If so, the fleet and senior members of the Humbolt family were sacrificed to give the [[Imperium]] a clear target whilst other assets were hidden. Whatever the truth of this, all family members and high-ranking retainers who could be found were exiled from the [[Imperium]]. Their current whereabouts are unknown.

The Humbolts are now sector-wide boogeymen for [[Deneb Sector|Deneb]].

### The Humbolts

The former Dukes of Vincennes were enormously rich and powerful, enjoying the support of many worlds in the sector. After they chose the losing side in the Civil War, the Humbolts' power was broken and their assets were seized – all that could be found, anyway. Their fleet was chased down, brought to action and destroyed. However, it is not possible to say how many members of the family escaped and what they took with them.

Today, the Humbolts are the subject of dozens of conspiracy theories and blamed for all manner of setbacks, problems and outbreaks of unrest. They are also used as a threat to manipulate public opinion –'better get this legislation through its democratic review process before the Humbolts finish their sneaky plans to take control over the krill-protein processing industry'.  It is known that some members of the Humbolt family fled beyond the [[Imperium]] and some of their supporters funnelled money and hardware to them. It is not clear how many of former allies and supporters were sincere in their conversion to the new order but five centuries have passed. This is long enough for the Humbolts to have carved out an empire somewhere or been wiped out by a string of misfortunes. The situation is obfuscated further by the plethora of 'false Humbolts'.

These include entirely fictitious allegations that the Humbolts are threatening the stability of the [[Imperium]] by measures that must be opposed by following someone's agenda as well as real groups trying to exploit the Humbolt legend to legitimise their own endeavors.  The conspiracy theorists are adamant that Humbolt agents and high-ranking members of the family are in positions of power across the sector and beyond, and that these 'false Humbolts' are actually real.  The premise behind these claims is that it serves the Humbolts' purposes for everyone to discount rumors of their activities as 'just another false Humbolt' and that they are behind every event in the sector.

The reality of the matter is that there are some remnants of the Humbolts' powerbase in Deneb and they did succeed in establishing enclaves elsewhere. These groups have evolved over time. Some have collapsed and others have left behind the 'Humbolt legacy' to pursue other aims. However, there are family members and close allies in Deneb who are working towards someday restoring the family to its lost glory. They are willing to support a cause they believe in, or which furthers their agenda, and may give arms or money to rebels against groups that had a hand in their destruction long ago.

The surviving Humbolts have long memories and an unknown level of power or influence. They cannot possibly be as active as conspiracy theorists like to believe, or else they would have already taken over the sector, but they do have local powerbases and a plan. It is possible this is disrupted by the individual ambitions of these Humbolt successors, who may well be working against one another as well as towards their final goal.