Settlers set out from [[Terra]] and other worlds throughout the [[Interstellar Wars]] and [[Second Imperium|Rule of Man]]. Some used cryogenic suspension, others attempted to use generation ships. Most had jump-capable vessels. The fate of many will never be known and there are almost certainly still a number of sublight vessels filled with now-dead frozen colonists headed into the unknown.

However, the fate of some missions was less grim. One such reached the world now named [[Gram]], in the [[Sword Worlds subsector]], and founded a colony in -399. This group comprised mainly of North Europeans from Terra and, possibly due to difficult times early on, developed a rather unique culture based on an idealised version of Icelandic and Scandinavian values. As the colony grew, surrounding worlds were colonized and named for swords in [[Terra|Terran]] mythology. A government of sorts, based on the world of [[Sacnoth]] and known as the [[Sacnoth Dominate]], eventually emerged.

In -164 the Sword Worlders, as they were now known, encountered the re-emerging Darrians, to mutual surprise.  The two cultures were very different; the Darrians were egalitarian and intellectual, the Sword Worlders chauvinistic, obsessed with personal honor and, above all, far too 'manly' for their own good. Cultural and occasionally military conflict flared between the Darrians and Sword Worlders, which has never really ceased.

However, the Sword Worlders spent most of their time bickering among themselves, and by -102 the Sacnoth Dominate had broken into rebellion. The subsequent period of civil war caused all interstellar government among the [[Sword Worlds]] to collapse by -80. Each of the [[Sword Worlds]] went its own way, forming local alliances or honoring old debts of honor for past assistance but never forming a single government. There were many attempts, some violent, but none achieved success.
