# JODE
Jode has a high surface gravity and exotic atmosphere, making it a poor prospect for habitation but at the same time offering possibilities for the chemical industry. It was colonized using sealed-environment techniques, although these were primarily workplaces rather than homes. The large orbital port has grown into a city and is home to most of the world's population. Indeed, the majority of citizens of Jode have never set foot on the planet and would really prefer not to.

Jode has little industry of its own, just some fabrication and light engineering located at the orbital port. Its economy is entirely based on the extraction and processing of chemicals from its exotic atmosphere or dissolved in its oceans. Although the atmosphere is not corrosive, it contains a number of compounds – notably chlorine-based – that will damage a human respiratory system if they get into a vehicle or settlement's internal atmosphere. Those working outside must undergo painstaking decontamination every time they pass into an inhabited area, so where possible this work is done using drones or robots.

Jode apparently suffered an enormous geological event around a million years ago, resulting in the sinking of one of its continents. This also caused the extinction of a native sentient species now referred to as Serpents.  The Serpents did not progress past the stage of using primitive stone tools and few artefacts have been found. There may be considerably more waiting to be located but finding them means working underwater on a world where a change in weather can result in toxic snow or dangerous chemical concentrations in the water.