# MARZ
Marz is a warm world with a dense atmosphere, making much of the surface uncomfortable for humans and Vargr. These areas are mainly populated by the native people, often referred to as Martians. Martians make up about 30% of the world population, with the remainder - around 40% human and 30% [[Vargr]] – concentrated in environment-controlled cities located in temperate and polar regions.

Imperial humans first settled Marz around 400, after the [[Vargr Campaigns]]. Various Vargr groups had already been on Marz for some time, although there is no scholarly consensus on when they first settled. Many Vargr gladly submitted to Imperial government, while some fled or fought. To this day, Marz maintains a patrol squadron to manage the 'corsair problem' in neighboring systems.

The government of Marz is a ponderous, multi-layered bureaucracy. The needs of the citizens are almost always met... eventually. Justice is meted out slowly, but in relative fairness, and inefficiencies in world management are offset by the wealth generated by trade. Marz acts as a trade nexus between the [[Imperium]] and [[Vargr Extents]], as well as between [[Pretoria]] and the [[Aramis Trace]].

Trans-border trade is usually carried out by specialist shipping companies, who use well-armed merchant ships or escorted convoys. Many small-ship operators also hop back and forth across the border, creating a major job for the system's customs enforcement personnel. Trade within the [[Imperium]] mostly moves aboard big multi-kiloton freighters by way of [[Pretoria]] and smaller vessels within the local cluster.