### Ameros

Over 50 years ago, megacorporation Hortalez et Cie, LIC underwrote an ambitious terraforming project on Ameros, whose goal it was to give the planet a thin atmosphere and 10-percent hydrosphere within the century. Purportedly they would transform the world without dropping any comets and planetoids from orbit, normally the linchpin of any terraforming project. Metamorph, the fledgling firm in charge of the project, have employed an experimental combination of biochemical, geological and gravitic techniques to get the job done, eschewing more traditional means but at far greater expense.

The results have not justified the hype thus far. With the project more than half complete, Ameros only has a trace atmosphere and negligible hydrosphere, all of which is currently locked up in equatorial ice caps. Hortalez et Cie is upset about the lack of progress but Metamorph scientists have assured them that results are coming. Metamorph contends that the first several decades of their revolutionary approach are preparatory and that the majority of the results will not appear until the very end of the project.

A competing firm has recently offered to come in and finish the job, proposing to scour the system’s Oort cloud for cometary bodies and other material with which to bombard Ameros, thereby thickening its atmosphere and providing water. Using less fancy technology, they believe that they can free up water in subterranean aquifers and even add spin to Ameros, which would otherwise be tidally locked to the system’s circumbinary pair. Hortalez is considering their pitch but Metamorph has expressed concerns that mixing the two approaches could have unexpected and possibly disastrous results.
