# Lagaashin

Lagaashin had been a reserve world dating back to the late stages of the First Imperium when it was a playground for high-ranking members of the Vilani nobility. Its stable primary star, habitable mainworld and well-developed biosphere made it a prime candidate for settlement. However, colonial expansion sometimes advances in mysterious ways and the world was bypassed numerous times in spite of its suitability. The Vilani had intended to develop Lagaashin for agricultural purposes once population levels in nearby systems reached a certain point but the Interstellar Wars and eventual fall of the Ziru Sirka prevented this from happening. During the Rule of Man, the conquering Solomani were more eager to exploit established agricultural worlds than to do the hard work of developing new ones and Lagaashin was passed by again. As the Third Imperium came about, one of its key tenets was respecting Vilani culture and traditions. While the Vilani had probably long forgotten that Lagaashin was ever a reserve world at this point, the Syleans’ historical records indicated otherwise and so, once again, Lagaashin was left undisturbed.

In the ensuing centuries, the notion of Lagaashin being a reserve world faded and local powers began to plan for its eventual use. Ninua, the capital of neighboring the Shinkan subsector, wanted Lagaashin to become a penal colony whose prisoners would be forced to work the land. Rapidly growing Nimluin hoped to send colonists there to relieve its overpopulation problems. Nuudle and Aaruu Zi planned to offer access to Lagaashin as an alternative for people who sought a simple, pastoral lifestyle.

It was Ninua who struck first, sending political prisoners, suspected dissidents and other perceived troublemakers to the world in 577, allegedly to provide labour for a number of agricultural collectives. A few decades later, the military junta on Nimluin followed suit, sending millions of political prisoners to Lagaashin where they were given basic supplies for survival and left largely to their own devices. Over time, the administration of the world became a nuisance for both Ninua and Nimluin and the descendants of the first Lagaashinians were granted limited self-rule. In the late 800s, the Lagaashinians created an array of interlocked councils to govern their world, a civil-service bureaucracy whose responsibility it was to carefully manage the resources and environment that had been gifted to them. Above all, they sought to achieve balance, using technology and planning to create a sustainable society.

As Lagaashin’s government matured and its people became aware of the universe around them, they saw the opportunity to make their world an experiment in which resources were not ravenously gobbled up but instead carefully managed and cultivated. The Tech Level on Lagaashin is somewhat difficult to measure. While its citizens do not rely on technology to the extent that people from other worlds do, they do use high-tech building materials, agricultural techniques and equipment with other technologies, which do not adversely affect the unique society they are trying to build. High technology is applied in an unobtrusive manner and low-tech solutions are used wherever practical, resulting in an overall lower Tech Level rating.

While Lagaashin was hardly a utopia, it had successfully created a sustainable and peaceful society. Alas, the Lagaashinians have fallen on troubled times. Ninua has once again asserted its authority over the planet, sending troops to the world under the pretence that they were present to ‘keep the peace’ despite there being little evidence of conflict. Ninua has also asserted that they require greater agricultural output from Lagaashin to address the needs of their growing population. Ninua is pushing Lagaashin to adopt a more aggressive development strategy and to expand their agricultural zones to include regions of the world that had been declared natural preserves. Ninua also wants Lagaashin to use lower-cost agricultural extraction technology that would threaten the delicate ecological balance that they have achieved. Many Lagaashinians are pushing back the only way that they can: by peacefully protesting Ninua’s unbidden and jackbooted assault on their world. General strikes by agricultural workers, hunger strikes and large demonstrations have become the norm in Lagaashin’s cities and towns. Authoritarian Ninua is intolerant of all forms of civil disobedience and has begun to oppress the Lagaashinians with the same methods used on their own world.

Of all the species native to Lagaashin, Kovil’s ox – or simply, the kovil – has been the easiest to domesticate. This gentle, elephantine creature showed little fear of the early colonists and settled in among them. The kovil is not really an ox at all but its size and demeanour earned it the name. Kovils were trained to pull ploughs and other heavy equipment on the agricultural combines until more efficient technological means were imported. While the kovil does not object to being led or ridden, attempts to train it to charge or behave aggressively have failed miserably. The animal is able to manage its pain centres, so corporal punishment and training techniques are ineffective. If badly wounded, the animal will attempt to flee and might trample anyone caught in its path but it will not otherwise attempt to harm humans. Kovils are rarely used as beasts of burden anymore, but they are still frequently seen grazing the fields and meandering through villages looking for food.
