# Unnagilu

The Unnagilu belt was host to small outposts for most of its history until the late 650s when belters struck rich deposits of iridium, ruthenium and rhodium, causing a rush to the system. Since then, the belt has been heavily exploited but belters continue to actively search for lodes of the rare metals among its millions of asteroids. Sternmetal Horizons was the first megacorporation to purchase major claims in the belt and has the longest-running presence in the system. Upstart mining firm, Delgado Trading, LIC, came onto the scene in the mid-1050s. The two firms now battle it out for supremacy, snatching up claims as they arise and scouring the belt for new strikes with arrays of mining drones. Things got nasty when the two corporations started deploying weaponised drones to disable and often outright destroy each other’s drones and other equipment. They kept their little war a secret until one of them inadvertently destroyed a seeker starship that was owned by an independent belter. Unnagilu’s government got involved but its representative democracy had been corrupted by the influential megacorporations and was unable to resolve the dispute. The government was dissolved having lost the confidence of its people. The Imperial Navy threatened to intervene before things got out of hand so the two firms hired mercenary forces to secure their strikes and keep the peace. The mercenaries have been put into the unlikely role of de facto governors of the system and established military rule in the belt and on the system’s other worlds and gas giant moons. Mercenary commanders working for both sides effectively collude with one another in order to maintain the status quo. While they are ill-suited to the tasks of government, a tense peace remains in place in the system. The Imperium is ready to intervene and has threatened to apply an Amber Zone designation to Unnagilu, which would likely be disastrous for all involved.

```
Animal Hits Speed
Kovil’s Ox 85 8m
Skills Melee (natural) 2, Recon 1, Survival 1
Attacks Trample (4D)
Traits Armor (+6), Tough, Large (+2)
Behaviour Herbivore, Grazer
```

It is difficult to make a living as an independent belter in this environment but that does not deter many from trying. Independents – or ‘indies’ as they are known- make up 8–10 percent of the belter population in Unnagilu. The indies chafe at the arbitrary interference of mercenary security forces but there is little they can do about it. Many are taking their seekers elsewhere to avoid getting caught in the crossfire but dreams of hitting a big beltstrike have kept the indie community alive in Unnagilu’s belt.

The scout base on Unnagilu includes one of the service’s primary zero-G training facilities. The scouts have sectioned off a region of the belt for the purpose of training its members in the finer points of vacc suit and zero-G operations. While its official designation is IISS Base 096G-1117, the scouts affectionately refer to it as ‘Camp Space Jockey’. The majority of scouts present for training are from the Exploration and Survey branches with a minority from the Communications branch. The asteroids inhabited by the scouts have been tapped of their most valuable metals and minerals, which prevents them from being contested by the megacorporations or indies. The scouts also have a base on Ordri, one of the moons of the system’s innermost gas giant.

Despite Unnagilu’s problems, centuries of settlement have created a thriving civilization in the belt. Hundreds of hollowed out asteroids are now home to populations of belters, corporate employees and the employees of the companies and small businesses that are required to provide services for the them all. Most of these artificial habitats are run quite well by local councils who are in the process of building a new system government and drafting a constitution for Unnagilu that excludes the bickering megacorporations from having an influence.
