
In a frontier sector, Biirke is the type of system that might be left barren but in the Core there are no such places. The system’s bright white main sequence star and its unstable red dwarf companion have swept most of the resource-poor planets clean of atmospheres and water, leaving little reason for settlers to stay. Biirke itself is a cold dustball chosen by a small resource-development company to host an automated Class D highport. Small craft pilots were hired to fly tankers to and from the system’s gas giants, bringing unrefined liquid hydrogen to be sold as fuel. Robots would be there to help visiting Travellers refuel their ships quickly and efficiently so they could move on to more promising ports of call. When the expected traffic failed to materialise and the company went bankrupt, the facility was abandoned. It turns out that most visitors to the system had opted to perform wilderness refuelling rather than travel to the out-of-the-way starport.

About a decade later, the mothballed starport was salvaged and refurbished by belters who had been fruitlessly searching Biirke’s planetoid belts for prospects. The savvy belters stripped the idle robots of their brains, reprogrammed them and fitted them into the tankers, which now make perpetual fuel runs to and from the gas giants, constantly replenishing the station’s fuel supply. While Biirke’s appeal has scarcely improved, traffic to the port has experienced a noticeable uptick. The belters turned it into a co-op, offering a share to others in their profession provided they participate in the highport maintenance rotation. They converted two of the station’s four docking bays into a market bazaar, which visiting merchants use to trade speculative cargo with each other. Members of the co-op recently salvaged an abandoned subsidised merchant, which they intend to refit and hire out to a crew, provided they limit their operations to the Lishiruud Cluster.
