
Virtually all of Ehok-ta’s 10,000 inhabitants are in the employ of Ne-ka-otabi, an entrepreneurial venture run by Syleans and Bwaps (refer to the _Traveller Companion_ or _Aliens of Charted Space Volume 3_ for more on the Bwaps). The firm used a large portion of its seed money to purchase a small gravitic city that was designed and built to their specifications by General Products, LIC. Ne-ka-otabi uses industrial robots from Shibashliim to mine the resources of the planet below. The gravity, atmospheric pressure and heat on the surface is much too high for a permanent settlement  but it is rich in rare-earth minerals and petrochemicals. The city floats high above the clouds where the temperature and atmosphere are more comfortable. Even at high altitude, the air is dense and humid, which is just fine for Bwaps but often a bit uncomfortable for human inhabitants.

The workers elect a Civic Council that runs a union, requests infrastructure improvements, operates utilities and manages the purchase of offworld foodstuffs and other goods. The Council advises Ne-ka-otabi corporate officers on what the population needs but the company is under no legal obligation to do anything other than pay their employees. The operation has an opportunity to do extremely well, making the company and its employees rich. However, despite bringing in impressive resource hauls, Ne-ka-otabi has struggled to make a profit thus far. To make matters worse, the city’s gravitic pylons have been failing at an alarming rate. The extraction bots, purchased on Shibashliim, have been performing to expectations but the technology that keeps the city afloat has been subpar. Its gravitic support system has multi-redundant safeguards, so there is no imminent danger of it plunging into the crushing depths of Ehok-ta but the frequent failure alarms and subsequent costs incurred for repairs are unnerving for the city’s residents. Many question the decision making of the Ne-ka-otabi executives and have petitioned to have them replaced.
