
The supreme pontiff of Khusgurlu is Aulonn Jhourdan-Valestin. While this particular 'instance' of the man has led the Church of the Chosen Few for only the last two decades, he has in a way led it for the last 2,000 years. Jhourdan-Valestin and virtually all 20 billion of his parishioners are clones. The Church keeps a catalogue of approximately 12 billion approved DNA templates, each of which is a permanent 'citizen' of the planet. Some twins are allowed to occur but triplets are prevented by the cloning process. Approximately five billion Khusgurluans are duplicates, so at any one time there might be two or three clones of one template in circulation. After one lives a full life and dies a natural death – anagathics are strictly forbidden – they are `resurrected` by having their template implanted into and taken to term by a female. The Church is monotheistic and the people believe that God protects them and grants them 'immortality' in exchange for strict adherence to its rituals. While coital behaviour between couples is allowed as a ritual activity, natural reproduction is not. Motherhood only occurs at the behest of the Church and only through implantation. Despite a comprehensive high-tech surveillance network and virtually infallible contraception, natural childbirths do occur from time-to-time. Natural reproduction is a high crime and punishable by the death of both parents and their naturally created child. The parents are referred to as 'heretics' and children as 'abominations'.

It should be noted that Khusgurlu's use of cloning technology and consciousness templates treads a fine line with recent Imperial law. In 1070, Emperor Paulo III ruled that consciousness transfer is a crime because it tampers with the mind of a sentient life form. The Church of the Chosen Few got around the law by establishing that its clones are not fitted with the consciousnesses of live individuals but merely with copies of a template. The templates themselves are artificial constructs, none of which are based on brain patterns extracted from actual living beings, or at least so the Church claims. The practice began during the murk of the Long Night and there is no concrete proof to the contrary.

Upon resurrection, most Khusgurluans embark upon a unique life experience, meaning they do not fill the same role or live in the same geographic location as their previous clone; however, a favorite pastime is looking into the Church's extensive databases to see one's past lives. The texts and holovideos are edited to convey the virtues of a duty-bound, pious lifestyle. While they may have filled many roles during previous lives – perhaps a genetic scientist in one life, a soldier in another and a labourer in the one after that – these histories convey a frightening consistency designed to encourage conformity and obedience. No one wants to view their past lives to discover they were rebellious and brought shame to the church or had dangerous independent thoughts.

While its origins are lost in the murk of history, the Church of the Chosen Few is thought to have resulted from the struggles of the Long Night. Khusgurlu, a moon of the system's innermost gas giant, was the site of a Vilani colony that was left intact by the Terrans during the Rule of Man. The system has reasonably rich resources in its planetoid belt and other gas giant moons (it has no independent planets) but Khusgurlu itself is its only marginally habitable world and only just. Its intemperate red dwarf star spews flares every few decades, most of which only last a few hours. When Khusgurlu is occluded by its gas giant, it suffers few effects. When it is not, the flares strip away much of its atmosphere which is, over time, restored by the world's abundant genetically engineered plant life. The flares had historically caused a large number of deaths and genetic mutations, endangering the viability of the colony. To prevent its collapse, Khusgurluan scientists developed a library of genetic templates, which they kept in circulation through an implantation process. It is likely that the Church is an outgrowth of this meticulous process.

The Church of the Chosen Few is loyal to the Imperium and willingly subscribes to the notion that [[Capital]] is its political nexus; however, they believe that Khusgurlu is its spiritual center and that the Imperium would greatly benefit from adopting similar rituals. Missionaries from the Church are commonly encountered throughout the Core. While they do not invite offworlders to their own planet, they do encourage them to adopt Church practices and have built temples on worlds throughout the Core. Khusgurluans who have proven their piety are allowed to serve in the Imperial armed forces, which they use as yet another opportunity to evangelise their religion. Anyone allowed to leave their homeworld is implanted with surveillance augments to ensure they remain faithful.
