
Velpare is a key stop along the Sylean Main, linking the Keplo and Vvrin Clusters. The system primary is a long-lived orange main sequence star called Auroralari. The richness of Auroralari’s planetary disk gave birth to several worlds and gas giant moons with a diverse array of atmospheric compositions. Velpare itself is gifted with a breathable oxygen-nitrogen mix and a lush biosphere of highly evolved flora and fauna. Much like Capital, Velpare has a larger-than-normal molten iron core, giving it higher gravity and a more powerful magnetosphere than would otherwise be present for a world of its size.

Velpare was the site of a famous battle between the Interstellar Confederacy and the Sylean Federation. Disorganised Confederacy naval forces were no match for the strategic savvy of Sylean Commodore Orori Rudolph. However, the Syleans went a bridge too far by bucking orders and launching an orbital assault in which their marines were soundly defeatedby  Velparian army and militia forces. The commodore and his officer corps were subjected to a court martial and subsequent dishonorable discharge for their actions. Having saved face and maintained the pristine condition of their world, Confederacy forces sued for peace and were granted self-rule provided they pledge fealty to Sylea. This they did and their government gradually evolved into a non-charismatic dictatorship in which their leader became Duke of Velpare. As the centuries passed and the Third Imperium took charge, Velparian leadership became more autocratic, which resulted in a number of revolts and terrorist attacks by resistance forces. These were violently put down and the world was eventually occupied by forces from Shibashliim, which established military rule. In 978, rebels infiltrated the garrison, assassinated several Shibashliimi officers and destroyed key strategic resources, expelling the tyrannical duke to the equatorial jungles. Imperial arbitrators brokered an armistice by which the Shibashliimi were expelled from the system and self-rule was restored.

The exiled duke is still the official representative of Velpare but the world is now effectively governedby five baronies, which oversee the world’s cities, agricultural districts and wildlife preserves. Ironically, Velpare was made capital of Cemplas one month after the coup, thereby promoting the exiled noble to the role of subsector duke. In the absence of the duke, the barons collectively share the responsibility of representing Cemplas.

The barons of Velpare lead with a light touch and allow for a great many personal freedoms including the possession of non-military weapons for self- defense. House militias may legally use military weapons provided they pledge to engage in joint exercises and assist with the planet’s defense should the need arise. Unfortunately, the spectre ofdictatorship and  the occupation still haunts Velpare. The ousted duke remains in hiding, using superior Shibashliimi technology to mask the presence of his forces. No one knows if the original duke still rules or if his successors are now in charge. The group occasionally raids baronial farms and perpetrates acts of terrorism, destroying public buildings, infrastructure and settlements on the periphery of Velpare Downport. Rumor has it the barons plan to pool their resources to hire offworld mercenaries to assist them with the expulsion of the duke and his army. Since the duke is still ostensibly a member of the Peerage, no one is quite sure how the Imperium will react to such a move. Furthermore, other members of the Moot have pointed out that Velpare is a case in point for why it is best to keep Imperium bureaucracy and world leadership separate. Leading members of the advisory body have petitioned the Emperor to separate the powers but he has thus far resisted their requests to do so.

In spite of its problems, Velpare welcomes interstellar commerce and offworld immigrants in an attempt to further establish its presence on the Sylean Main. Velpare is a beautiful world with sprawling primeval forests, equatorial rainforests and extensive mountain ranges that attract tourists and adventurous Travellersfrom throughout the Core. Its cosmopolitan cities are popular destinations, known for their excellent cuisine, all of which is made from locally grown ingredients. Their post popular dishes are spiced with extracts of the varinte plant, which is prized for its flavor throughout the Core and beyond.

Velpare hosts both Imperial Navy and scout bases. The bulk of scout personnel are from the Communications branch, which coordinates x-boat routes and starship resources along the entire Sylean Main.
