
Ye-lu is one of two worlds in Cemplas wholly owned by the Imperial Navy, the other being Celetron. Ye-lu is a tiny airless rockball that serves as the testing ground for an automated conscious intelligence that runs the entire planet. This software, which answers to the name 'Mother', uses advanced, nearly instantaneous meson communicators for all of its instructions.

The Imperial government and – to a lesser degree – its armed forces have always had an irrational fear of artificial intelligence, borne of their partially Vilani heritage and various mishaps that have occurred over the ages. While the Ye-lu installation and those like it are controversial, there are legally mandated mitigation technologies present that prevent applications like Mother from being truly autonomous. Ye-lu skirts these regulations very closely.

The entire world is, metaphorically speaking, a multi-cellular organism. Mother controls all of its computer systems, utilities, thousands of robots and trillions of microbots and nanites, making her own decisions about what needs to be added, removed or altered as demands change. On a given day, personnel at the station might notice a new wing under construction without knowing about it ahead of time. Mother posts all of her activities in a database accessible to the human staff but it is difficult to keep up with her myriad projects. At present, Mother has covered approximately 35 percent of Ye-lu's surface with various structures but this percentage ebbs and flows depending on what she has been asked to do and what she is working on independently.

The naval staff are present at Ye-lu in a primarily scientific role. They are there to guide and monitor Mother's activities in order to determine if her advanced technology can be applied elsewhere. If things go well, more automation at Imperial military facilities could become the norm.

#### Shipwreck Hunters

> [!info] Shipwreck Hunters
> The Sylean Main has been travelled by starships for thousands of years. It was a provincial route for the Vilani, a major artery into the First Imperium for Terran conquerors, the site of numerous battles during the Sylean Federation-Interstellar Confederacy War and now hosts the Core's most valuable trade route. Over the millennia, hundreds of ships on the route have been lost during battles, wilderness refuelling operations gone wrong, misjumps and other calamities. Celebrity shipwreck hunters ply the route searching these old hulks for salvage and adventure. The few dozen that have been found have captured the public's imagination. Imperial citizens are fascinated with their long, complicated histories and a great deal of excitement and media attention surrounds the discovery of each old wreck. Holovideo documentaries about newly discovered wrecks are among the most popular entertainments available in the Core and each new discovery is like opening a time capsule from various eras of Imperial history.
>
> Perhaps the most famous of these lost ships, and one that has yet to be found, is the Regal Voyager , a 50,000-ton cruiser commanded by Interstellar Confederacy war hero, Beau-Ta-Quitala. A noble from Keplo, the daring and handsome Beau-Ta-Quitala was the warrior-sage of his era. Legends tend to grow out of proportion with reality over time but the historical record speaks for itself. He was a brilliant academic with a doctorate in jumpspace engineering, a savvy politician and a warfighting capital ship captain. Beau-Ta-Quitala and all hands of the Regal Voyager were lost in action 1,300 years ago while travelling from Keplo to Sketola where the heroic captain was to engage in a final showdown with the rebel leader, Baron Rolf von Toerbach of Protalus.
>
> There are many mysterious theories about Beau-Ta-Quitala's disappearance, some quite outlandish, but few solid clues as to where his famous starship may have ended up. Most people believe it must have misjumped somewhere into the Bunkeria-Cemplas Gap, the stellar chasm between the two subsectors. If anyone were to find the lost ship, fame and fortune beyond imagination would surely follow.
