### ANTRA

Antra is a subsector capital and important link on the x-boat network. It is renowned for its Worldroof, an experimental construction of hexagonal cells supported by towers, intended to create a sheltered and partially controlled environment, increasing air pressure to more comfortable levels and eliminating the worst effects of weather. The cells act as solar collectors and, along with wind-powered generators, provide much of the world's electricity.

The Worldroof is visually spectacular but scientifically even more impressive. A large museum at the downport explains the science and technology behind the construction and maintenance of the Worldroof, taking pains to ensure visitors understand just how staggeringly expensive and difficult it was to create.

Antra has another well-known tourist attraction, the so-called Black Lines; lines, curves and shapes etched on the bedrock of some areas. They appear to be artificial and are visible from low orbit but although there are many hypotheses about their origins and meaning, little is truly known about them. Nevertheless, people come from far and wide to visit the Black Lines. Some are taken in by charlatans pretending to be scientists with an explanation of the phenomenon and whilst the government officially disapproves of sell-out lectures by fake scientists, it does little to curb the practice as it generates revenue; speculation (usually presented as fact, or as 'shocking revelations the mainstream science community doesn't want you to know') about the Black Lines is one of the few unregulated areas of life on Antra. After all, whenever a lunatic theory takes hold of the popular imagination, a few million tourist Credits come into Antra's coffers.

As a result of this free-for-all, a number of myths exist about Antra. The reality is fairly mundane; Antra is an important and rich world, the seat of the subsector duke, with a booming tourist sector. Its capital is a hotbed of political intrigue, with ambassadors from other duchies and corporate officials entrenched in heavily-guarded embassies. Anyone of note arriving at the capital can expect to be cordially invited to parties, receptions or just a friendly meeting with one or more of these officials and then the manoeuvring starts.
Everyone wants to manipulate the other players to their advantage; anyone of note might be a useful pawn in the game of sector politics. The situation is similar at other ducal seats in the sector but Antra is particularly rife with political gamesmanship. Reliable information is hard to obtain and no-one's motives are clear.