Travelled farther along the river.
Went back to track the [[Shakuurzarpi]] and lost a whole day to that.
Reached the waterfall and the split.  Proceeded on.
Attacked by a swarm of [[FTINVASIVE SPECIES#Elleby's Cricket]], but not harmed.  [[Ranger Cerny]] used a flash-bang to help disperse the creatures.
Attached by 3 [[FTINVASIVE SPECIES#Gisidi Enveloper]]'s.  The largest was 5m.  That looked bad, but [[Jonathan]]  turned on kill mode and shot two of them.  [[Okhotnikov]] was injured somewhat. First combat for the group!
Camped after.  Next morning, [[Okhotnikov]] awoke and said "What the hell was that?  Those things are supposed to be extinct!  Also, they never hunt in groups." and an [[Air-Raft]] of [[FTINVASIVE SPECIES#CONSERVATION CLUBS|Rangers]] flew over.  Swarmed by crickets and crashed. All hands were lost.  [[TsuZ]] headed off alone (!) and was attacked by 3 [[FTINVASIVE SPECIES#Sylvie's Greycat]].  Greycats are _exclusively_ solitary hunters.  Afterwards, proceeding to the crash site, the group noticed that the area was _covered_ with [[FTINVASIVE SPECIES#Ginkus Ankii]], which previously had [[Jonathan]] by the boot.  There was a sound of [[Shakuurzarpi]] call.  Everyone has noticed that the animals are acting very weird.
[[Eddie]] fixed the [[Air-Raft]] enough to carry 3 people, but obvs not the horses.  Also, [[Okhotnikov]] indicated that (a) the contract was not fulfilled and (b) he has a problem that he would likely be open to new negotiations about.
The group headed into the woods after the [[Shakuurzarpi]].  Several people were floating ideas about what was up.  [[Jonathan]] came the closest, wondering if the animals were "psychic"
The had to pass around a huge web in the woods, and shortly after they appeared to be becoming surrounded by forest animals. 



