2024-08-25

Previous Session: [[2024-08-11]]

## Recap
Byron gave the recap.  

142-[[IY1103]] - 

## Players


## Events

Arrived at [[Affinity#Affinity Highport]] and headed to [[Affinity#Eneri's Cantina]]

[[Jonathan]] and [[Eddie]] were previous patrons and they were 

- [[Jonathan]]  Whiskey Neat
- [[Eddie]] Whiskey
- [[Jerry]] Double Whiskey high octane neat
- [[Ralph]] Something [[Vargr]]
- [[Georgia]] Has whatever [[Eddie]] is having
- [[TsuZ]] Tequila-adjacent drink

In [[Affinity#Eneri's Cantina]], they caught the following rumors:
- A delegation from the [[Cemplas subsector]] recently passed through [[Affinity]] from [[Capital]].  It is revealed that  they were members of the nobility who left in a huff over controversial new laws being proposed in the Moot
- A shipment of 10 tons of barricades and riot gear recently arrived from Rek-shons. The cargo modules containing the gear are unlabelled but are inadvertently revealed when the seal breaks on one of them, spilling the contents onto the platform.
- A new bar has opened on deck 1 of the highport.  No additional info obtained.

[[Jerry]] met [[Bloqua Altidore]] and debated temporal vs permanant art.  They were offered a [[Last Call at Eneri's Cantina#One Person's Trash is Another's Treasure|3 Credit-stress job]] by [[Bloqua Altidore]] for five securely packaged tons of preserved artefacts.  [[Eddie]]will need to modify some shipping containers to secure the relics.

[[TsuZ]] was approached by [[Brale Hawthorne]] to fight in the [[Last Call at Eneri's Cantina#The First Rule of Melee Club|Sixday fights.]].  Tsu refuses.
No one was interested in gambling.

## Referee's Notes