# A Job in Skenadel

#### An adventure for Traveller

by Tom Chlebus

## This document is Open Game Content

This adventure takes place on a world with Starport A, Size 8, Atmosphere 6. It is implied that the Population code is 9+.

## The Adventure

#### Part 1: Employment Opportunity

The PCs have concluded other business and are returning to their ship at the top of the Skenadel protrusive. A day before they board the elevator they are approached by two men in subdued yet expensive suits, who invite them to receive an employment offer. If the PCs agree they are taken to an office where they meet a man who introduces himself as Mr. Smith. Once the PCs are seated Mr. Smith says, "We had a civil war, which ended nearly ten years ago. The faction that held this region accumulated a stockpile of phosgene. Illegal of course, and fortunately they never saw fit to use it, but unused means it is still illegally stockpiled. You can understand why we want to be rid of it."

##### Other Information

Mr. Smith has taken it upon himself to eliminate the phosgene because he is afraid some officials in the government might be tempted to keep it for later use. This is also the reason he is hiring people for the purpose rather than acting in an official capacity. He stresses that discretion is of the utmost importance. Public discovery of a chemical weapon stockpile would ruin the careers of many of Mr. Smith's superiors and colleagues, not to mention Mr. Smith's own career. If the PCs decline, Mr. Smith will stress that the existence of the phosgene is classified, and an attempt to profit from the information would not be to their benefit.

##### Information that is provided only if the PCs accept the job

Payment will be Cr10,000 plus Cr1,000 per PC. They will be given a debit card with a Cr5, advance. If the topic comes up, Mr. Smith will provide access to reasonable amounts of ammunition for legal weapons the PCs possess. If he arranges the purchase of ammunition for illegal weapons or for large amounts of ammunition it will draw attention, thus defeating his purpose in hiring the PCs. The phosgene is stored in one of the protrusive's vacuum spaces. The phosgene has been hidden "in plain sight" by mislabeling it as herbicide. Its exact location is not known, largely because the people who know this information wish to avoid being charged as accessories. The general location is known, which the PCs will have to search. Mr. Smith will entreat the PCs to make sure none of the phosgene canisters gets punctured. True, releasing the gas in vacuum does not itself harm people, but it will then freeze on the protrusive's interior surfaces and residue will be tracked into habitable spaces. It will also condense onto the suits of anybody near the gas plume. "Removing one's helmet in a phosgene-charged airlock is an other-than-optimal way to decide how to spend one's earnings."
Each PC will receive an access badge that will allow easy passage to the vacuum space. Each PC who needs a vacc suit will be lent one for the job. Each PC will receive a cell phone. It can read cargo ID codes and will identify the target by displaying " **HERBICIDE** " in black letters on a red background. A PC may then call the number stored on the phone to alert Mr. Smith's people, who will determine the phone's location and rapidly arrive with cargo trucks and forklifts. Once this call is made, all the phones will crash.

#### Part 2: Debarkation

After spending their advance money on "candy shopping" the PCs ride a freight elevator car to First Stop. Their vacc suits and larger weapons must travel as cargo so they must retrieve it before proceeding into the vacuum space. Between departing the elevator car and arriving at the next elevator, the PCs will be accosted by a group equal in number to the PCs. The leader will begin by calmly telling the PCs to hand over the phones they have been provided. Next he will order them to surrender the phones or they will be forced to, and the thugs will produce a variety of clubs. If the PCs have not initiated violence by this point, the thugs will. Note that if the PCs resort to gunfire in such a public location it is virtually guaranteed that Mr. Smith will terminate ther employment and disavow them. A thug will run off once one of his stats nears zero, or if he is shot. Once half the thugs are unconscious or fled, the remainder will flee. If the leader is captured he will know only that he was hired to retrieve the phones from the PCs.

Leader 789766 Mesh Club (2d6)
Club-1 Leader-

Thug 778755 Jack Club (2d6)
Club-

#### Part 3: The Search

Read "Vacuum Spaces" below. Somewhere in this three-dimensional maze is the phosgene. Besides the limit to the air supplies in the vacc suits, there is the matter that there clearly are others hunting for the phosgene. The process of finding it can be as brief or involved as the referee likes. If your players have short attention spans it is possible to reduce the search to a series of task rolls. Each failed task = 1 point Each successful task = 2 points Each natural 12 = 4 points Each good idea from a player is worth up to three points. When the total reaches the target number, the PCs have found the phosgene. The target number is 10 plus one per player character. Emphasize the darkness of the protrusive's interior, lit at intervals by lamps that serve mainly to indicate the scale and darkness of the search area. Where there is a clear view upward, all that is visible is the structural supports rising beyond the reach of the lighting. Give the players at least one false positive: Canisters of construction foam or emergency carbon dioxide absorbent, something that resembles their target. The vacuum space is effectively a warehouse, so there will be some people pursuing their business. They can be used as red herrings, to make the players paranoid, or even as sources of information. There is a second group of thugs following the PCs, with double the numbers of the PC group and stats equal to the first group's.

Leader 789766 Mesh Club (2d6)
Club-1 Leader-

Thug 778755 Jack Club (2d6)
Club-

The thugs will wait for the PCs to locate the phosgene and attempt to subdue them long enough for their own people to arrive. If a player specifically has his character looking for suspicious people, the thugs will be easy enough to find that a task roll is unnecessary. Even if the players don't think to have their players

keep watch, you can use the false positive to have the thugs tip their hand.

**The Phosgene**
The phosgene is in canisters 1 meter tall and one-half meter in diameter. Each canister has two labels, one on the top and one on the side. A label has the logo of Evergreen Gardening, Inc., the word
"HERBICIDE," and a large bar code. The canisters are arranged 3 by 5 on 2 meter by 3 meter pallets. They are stacked three high, in frames that hold them stable. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of these pallets.

#### Part 4: Recovery

Once the call is made, exactly how long before Mr. Smith's people arrive depends on how well the PCs do against the thugs. If they are holding their own with little difficulty, relief will take at least 30 minutes of game time, allowing you to get creative with what the thugs attempt. If the dice heavily favor the thugs, Mr. Smith's people arrive far more quickly. Mr. Smith's people arrive in a train consisting of a control car, a passenger car, a hospital car, and twenty flatbeds. There are four grav-lift cargo shifters, and a dozen guards armed with shotguns. If the thugs proved little or no challenge, the PCs and guards might have a firefight with the thugs'
support team.

#### Part 5: Conclusion

Medical care has been applied, Mr. Smith has frowned over the destructive excesses player characters are prone to, and money has changed hands. Mr. Smith shows a live feed of the canisters being taken to what amounts to a balcony protruding from the protrusive's skin, and the phosgene vented into vacuum to disperse harmlessly. It is likely the events were of the sort to draw precisely the attention Mr. Smith was trying to avoid generating. Be as strict or lenient as you think appropriate but remember that Mr. Smith is a powerful man, even with his career damaged or destroyed. He is unlikely to attempt revenge as such, but if the PCs ever return to this planet they will have ample opportunities to learn just how powerful he is.

## The Skenadel Protrusive

A “protrusive structure” is an inhabited structure, typically considered a single, if extremely large, city. It is an example of megaengineering so tall that it protrudes from the atmosphere. Skenadel has a height of 160 km, a diameter of 7.96 km, and an internal volume of 7,962.25 km^3. For most of the protrusive's height, its skin is not solid. It is composed of numerous layers of translucent vertical slats that screen out sunlight and block micrometeorites. Only at the lowest fifteen kilometers does the structure need protection from weather. Administratively, Skenadel protrusive is a city with five boroughs: The Heel, First Stop, Midpoint, Interface, and Highside. The entire volume of the protrusive is not yet occupied, so between the boroughs are the "vacuum sections." Residences in Skenadel are much like space stations except that air is simply piped up the spire. On average, each resident has approximately four dtons of living space. There are "islands" in the vacuum spaces. Some are part of the system and are hooked into the supply lines. Others are squatters. Make of them what you will.

### The Boroughs

##### Highside

Protrusive summits draw many people who possess more money than sense. They are irresistibly drawn there by a sense of being "above it all" that orbital habitats are too distant to provide. They rapidly discover the financial reality of such a monstrous structure makes the presence of a downport welcome, with the concomitant presence of the grubby commoners who make the port work. Over a quarter of Highside's population is the very wealthy and most of the rest is working class and middle class. At the very top of Skenadel protrusive is the Summit Disc, 10 km across. On its top surface is Skenadel Downport (Class C), a solar power farm, various vacuum industries, and several residences. The wealthy have homes around much of Topside's rim with the homes of starport employees shoehorned into available spots. The rim and underside of the disc also contain homes. Highside is a major telecommunication hub, because it is of course stationary and is both closer and more easily accessed than a satellite. Highside is the second-largest of the boroughs in Skenadel protrusive.

##### Interface

This borough demonstrates a less-intense version of Highside's hubris magnet. The rich and foolish here have sacrificed fifty kilometers of height to gain distance from the port workers. Perhaps tellingly, there are far fewer wealthy here than are in Highside. Interface is both the third-smallest and third-largest borough in Skenadel

##### Midpoint

Skenadel's second-smallest borough is also its tourist town. Many people pause here on their way to Highside, and for many more Midpoint is a destination. Elevators, trainevators, and trains bring tourists so they can gaze through the airless clarity at the stars or at their homeworld.

##### First Stop

This is Skenadel's smallest borough. It lacks the easy contact of Heel or even Highside, and lacks the prestige of the higher-altitude boroughs.

##### The Heel

This is by far the largest of the protrusive's boroughs, primarily because being on the ground makes Heel the easiest to access. Skenadel's surface sprawl is allowed only out to four kilometers from the protrusive - after all, permitting urban sprawl would defeat the purpose of the structure. Warehouses and train yards dominate the land adjacent to Skenadel's base.

### Vacuum Spaces

The top and bottom of a vacuum space is nice and level in order to keep any loose objects from falling. Going from there, the space is irregular. Vacuum space sections mostly start around the protrusive's structural members and grow outward. Sections vary in floor area and a level's height is determined by the builders, and often a section will have no walls. Platforms are placed at apparently-random heights, usually accessible only by a webwork of stairways. A grid of narrow-gauge railroads covers the deck, allowing necessary items to be moved in large quantities. Because there is no air and the protrusive skin blocks most sunlight, the vacuum spaces are cold and dimly lit, especially away from the perimeter. The interior is illuminated by widely-spaced lampposts and whatever lights have been brought along. A vacuum space is a dimly-lit maze of platforms, stairways, catwalks, and occasional walls, all of it looking frighteningly flimsy. This is where the phosgene is kept.

### Elevators

There are numerous elevators that carry people and cargo up and down Skenadel. During transit they maintain an average speed of 50 kilometers per hour. The express trip from the Heel to the Summit Disc takes slightly over three hours. There are of course numerous elevator columns other than the expresses. Some travel the entire height of the protrusive making stops at various points along the way. Many columns don't reach the entire way, instead travelling between adjacent boroughs. Several elevator columns are prioritized as "drops." When the downport receives a large amount of cargo at one time, the priority is to clear it rapidly. An elevator car on a drop column descends at speeds in excess of 450 km/h with a three-gravity deceleration at the bottom, reaching the ground in thirty or even twenty minutes. Passenger service on a drop is an option. A standard elevator car is a three-level cylinder. The top level has the passenger access and is outfitted as a passenger lounge. This ranges from starkly functional to luxurious. Shuttered windows are all around the lounge. Most elevator columns are inside the protrusive's structure, but some people prefer seeing that whiz by than staring at a room full of strangers with nothing to do. The next level might be outfitted for more passengers, in which case it is accessed through the top level. The second level also has a crew space. There may be a cargo handler or up to three stewards. In many cars the second level is for cargo. The third level is always a cargo space. An elevator station has two levels. The top level is for passengers. If the station deals primarily with passenger traffic it will have comfortable seating, amenities, and some degree of food service. If the station deals primarily with freight, there will be vending machines and the restrooms will usually be in usable condition. The bottom level of the station is for cargo handling. An elevator station has a loading bank for cars. An arriving car is removed from the column and safely anchored. The passenger and cargo doors are then safely mated to the station's airlocks and the car's contents are offloaded. For departing cars the procedure is reversed.

### Trainevators

One of the attractions of a protrusive is tourism and trainevators serve that function. Mechanically, a trainevator is similar to an elevator car except that instead of moving vertically it spirals up the protrusive at a 1:1 slope. At a stately 30 km/h the trainevator provides an excursion from Heel to Highside in slightly more than seven and a half hours, providing a breathtaking view of the ever-receding planet. A trainevator consists of four or more cars, most of them optimized for viewing. There are numerous cubicles for people who wish to rest without disturbance. The interior of a car has a distinct "stepped"
design because it necessarily functions at a 45-degree angle. Many cars consequently have escalators.

A trainevator station looks like a traditional train station except for being "stepped" to accommodate the track's forty-five degree angle, and the need for airlocks and pressurized boarding bridges.

### Trains

Skenadel's trains are conceptually identical to the trainevators, but a train takes 46 hours to ride a far gentler 10:1 slope. While a trainevator ride is a day excursion, a train ride is a two-day cruise. A train station looks like a traditional train station except for the need for airlocks and pressurized boarding bridges.

##### OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a

The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved.

1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative Material"
means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c)
"Distribute" means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs;
and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-
exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content. 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 10 Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 12 Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 13 Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License. 14 Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 15 COPYRIGHT NOTICE Open Game License v 1.0 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. High Guard System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose Publishing. Mercenary System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose Publishing. Modern System Reference Document Copyright 2002-2004, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Bill Slavicsek, Jeff Grubb, Rich Redman, Charles Ryan, Eric Cagle, David Noonan, Stan!, Christopher Perkins, Rodney Thompson, and JD Wiker, based on material by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, Peter Adkison, Bruce R. Cordell, John Tynes, Andy Collins, and JD Wiker. Swords & Wizardry Core Rules, Copyright 2008, Matthew J. Finch System Reference Document, Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. T20 - The Traveller's Handbook Copyright 2002, Quiklink Interactive, Inc. Traveller is a trademark of Far Future Enterprises and is used under license. Traveller System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose Publishing. Traveller is © 2008 Mongoose Publishing. Traveller and related logos, character, names, and distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks of Far Future Enterprises unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved. Mongoose Publishing Ltd Authorized User. Cepheus Engine System Reference Document, Copyright © 2016 Samardan Press; Author Jason "Flynn" Kemp 2D6 Magic, Copyright ©2017; Author: Michael Brown Designation of Open Game Content All of the text in this document is designated as Open Gaming Content, except for the titles of products listed under Section 15 of the Open Gaming License. Please Note: This Product is derived from the Traveller System Reference Document and other Open Gaming Content made available by the Open Gaming License, and does not contain closed content from products published by either Mongoose Publishing or Far Future Enterprises. This Product is not affiliated with either Mongoose Publishing or Far Future Enterprises, and it makes no claim to or challenge to any trademarks held by either entity. The use of the Traveller System Reference Document does not convey the endorsement of this Product by either Mongoose Publishing or Far Future Enterprises as a product of either of their product lines.
