# DARRIAN
Darrian is a small world with a standard atmosphere.  Although a little dry, it is entirely habitable by humans and was chosen by the Ancients as home for a transplanted population. Why they were moved to Darrian will probably never be known; the Ancients disappeared soon afterwards and the Darrians were left alone to develop on their new world.

According to Darrian legends and archaeological research, the [[Darrians]] lived in a world of gardens approximating the [[Terra|Terran]] Eden. It would seem that the [[Ancients]] created an environment for the population that met all needs and allowed their numbers to grow rapidly without conflict over resources.

Eventually, whatever Ancient devices ran the gardens began to fail, although was a gradual process. The [[Darrians]] were forced to spread across their planet and fend for themselves. Fortunately, [[Darrian]] was a very welcoming world and the transition was not traumatic.

Perhaps as a result of their comfortable environment, the [[Darrians]] developed a great respect for life and their science was channelled into coexistence with the environment rather than fighting it for survival. Science and technology progressed slowly as there was little need for rapid progress, although the [[Darrians]] developed intellectual gifts in abstract areas like mathematics and philosophy.

While Darrian is the original home of the Darrian people, it was thoroughly devastated by the solar flares of the Maghiz and never regained its position. Pre-_Maghiz_ structures and artefacts attract many visitors each year as they are of a higher Tech Level than encountered in the [[Imperium]] or Consulate. There are strict prohibitions on exporting pre-_Maghiz_ items.

[[Mire]] is the modern capital of the Confederation and all settlements are underground in order to preserve the surface for parks, nature reserves and agriculture.

By [[IY–1511]], the [[Darrians]] had developed a peaceful, rational society albeit without much in the way of technology. Everything changed with the arrival of refugees from [[Terra|Earth]], arriving on a fleet of ships built by the [[Itzin Corporation]], from Turkey on Old Earth itself. They were fleeing the decline that would lead to the [[Long Night]] and made an epic voyage all the way to [[Deneb]] before turning spinward and entering [[The Spinward Marches|the Marches]]. After surveying Sacnoth, the Itzin fleet chose Darrian as its final destination.

Whatever the new arrivals did next, Darrian and its people were changed forever. However, to the great good fortune of the Darrian people, the newcomers did not make the obvious 'sky gods' ploy, nor did they use their superior technology to dominate or marginalise the Darrians. Instead, they made a careful and friendly approach, trading fairly with their new friends who in turn welcomed the [[Terra|Terran]]s into Darrian society. Change was inevitable but the Darrian people were part of it rather than having it forced upon them.  Within a century, the two cultures had melded into one. The thoughtful, inquisitive nature of the Darrians complemented the energetic and, at times, reckless nature of the newcomers. Working with the technological base the [[Terra|Terran]]s had brought with them, the new Darrian society began a period of explosive growth and reached TL16 within just 400 years.

Curiosity very nearly killed the metaphorical cat when an experiment on Darrian's sun Tarnis resulted in the _Maghiz_ , or Chaos. Darrian itself was burned by the resulting explosion of star-hot gases and has never recovered. Most of the population died in the solar flares, or soon afterward, and the remainder were too busy trying to survive to preserve much in the way of technology. The Darrian return to space began in [[IY–0275]] but on the nearby world of [[Mire]] rather than Darrian itself.

Today, Darrian still bears the scars of the _Maghiz_. There are extensive ruins of former TL16 cites that attract tourists and scientists interest from far afield, as do the remains of what are now normally called 'orchards'; the Ancients-built gardens that were home to the original Darrian civilization. Trade in artefacts from these sites is strictly controlled.

Modern Darrian has a population numbering in the billions with most living on the surface, contrary to popular images of Darrian as a world of flying cities.  The surface is divided more by mountain ranges than by seas, creating five great basins that are the equivalent of continents. In addition, there are indeed four flying cities, held aloft by gravitic technology. Each has its own unique characteristics and function but together contain only a fraction of the world population.

In addition to being the spiritual home of the [[Darrian Confederation]], this world is also its main technological center. The IISS designates it TL16 but this is slightly misleading. TL16 artefacts are under study and in some cases duplicated and incorporated into devices as black-box components but the world does not make use of TL16 items on a routine basis. Most of the ultra-high technology available on planet is in the form of pre- _Maghiz_ artefacts, which are too precious for their scientific value to be used for practical tasks.

Study of pre- _Maghiz_ items, coupled with the Darrians' natural aptitude for technology, will undoubtedly result in technological growth to surpass that of the [[Imperium]] and perhaps even the pre- _Maghiz_ Darrians. However, despite the government of Darrian being composed largely of scientists, restrictions are in place and any potentially hazardous experimentation is very carefully considered before being implemented. The Darrian government is famous for its detailed analysis of the impact of almost every decision on the world and its people.
