Brygella has a complex oceanic biosphere that has been left largely undisturbed. The planet is almost completely covered with water and island land masses consume only three percent of its surface area. It is believed that Vilani nobles used the world, then called Lash, as an aquatic game-hunting preserve. The world was devoid of sophont populations during the Long Night and was only resettled during the early years of the Third Imperium. There is only one permanent habitation on the planet and that is at the prestigious Brygella School of Oceanography, a post-graduate university whose campus is entirely on artificial floating islands and underwater structures built on its seamounts.

The Imperial Navy and Scout Service both maintain bases on the planet where they train personnel for aquatic operations. The use of all forms of seafaring vehicles is taught, as are scuba and underwater survival skills. Both services have annexes at the university where their personnel interact with the civilian staff and student population.

The highport is an automated, high-tech facility where visiting Travellers can refuel their ships. There is little in the way of infrastructure for commercial activity so merchants conduct trade outside the confines of the starport. Highport robots and small craft may be rented to help transfer cargo and freight. Permits to land at the downport are arranged through the Scout Service. Typically, only academics are allowed on planet but Travellers who say they are there for scientific reasons – and not for sport fishing or some other illegal activity – can often wheedle their way into a short-term pass.
