Kysizi is a world of deep oceans with dozens of stitch-like mountain ranges along its tectonic plates that jut upward from the sea floor, striving to reach the surface. The few that actually made it above the waves formed several large islands and hundreds of smaller ones, covering less than two percent of the planet's surface. However, Kysizi's natural land masses are only part of its story.

Kysizi was once Ganshas, an important Ziru Sirka world along an extensive jump-1 trade route that ran from the Laraa subsector in Dagudashaag into the Arar subsector of Massilia, skirting through a few worlds on the periphery of the Core. Ganshassian civilization lasted for thousands of years under Vilani rule. The world was under the aegis of all three of the major Bureaux and was considered to be one of the gems of the empire. While Ganshas had only marginal resources of its own, its location on the trade route made it a key world. Over the millennia, the Ganshassians built atop the islands and seamounts, creating another 18 million square kilometers of surface area for habitation.

At its peak, Ganshas was host to over eight billion people, over half of whom died from the effects of the Plague of Duskir, the collection of viruses and diseases brought to Vilani worlds by [[Terra|Terran]]s during the Interstellar Wars. For reasons unknown, the Ganshassians were uniquely vulnerable to the plague. Ganshas continued to decline in population during the deprivation of the Long Night but had nearly stabilized by the time it was contacted by Sylean Federation scouts. The natives of the world were once again decimated by plagues, which wiped out billions more in the years after contact with the Syleans. Despite reasonably high technology, the pathogens to which they were exposed were resilient against treatments and vaccines. By the time the plague had finished devastating the Ganshassians, a mere one percent of their original number remained.

The world was left barren for centuries but was, in the early 800s, resettled by colonists who salvaged what remained of its massive artificial land masses and built new cities upon them. Eight centuries is a long time and many of the old Ganshassian structures had crumbled, fallen into the sea or had been reclaimed by various algae, mosses and seavines. The fact that so many still remain is a testament to the durability of the high-tech materials used to build them.

While not technically an agricultural world, Kysizi's primary products are genetically engineered crops grown under translucent domes. The domes are made from a patented 'hyperpolymer' designed by engineers from the Naasirka megacorporation. This material extracts the desired nutrients of a system's star and filters out excessive radiation.

The majority of Kysizi's land masses are uninhabited but being picked over by millions of salvage robots who recycle materials found for incorporation into new buildings and other structures. Thanks to the investment of Naasirka, Kysizi has a very high-technology society. However, its citizenry are spread out and do not share a single government. Each of the major settlements has its own regional authority and the Law Level may be seen as an aggregate rating of the various city states.

A new wave of colonists have come to Kysizi to exploit its massive and revitalised fisheries. After centuries of being left alone, the oceanic ecosystem now resembles its pristine state before the world was settled thousands of years ago. Most of these newcomers live in floating seasteads, some of which are anchored to uninhabited seamounts. The instability of the crumbling structures along the coasts has made it difficult to settle them. Seasteader interaction with the world's land-locked cities is mostly achieved by grav vehicle. There are projects under foot to clear and rebuild the crumbling foundations of several coastal areas in order to create bona fide cities and harbours for ocean-going vessels.
