Lia is known throughout the Core as 'the world of planned progress' where a complex terraforming, colonization and civilization-development project has been under way for millennia. Formerly an uninhabited Vilani reserve world with a thick, high-pressure carbon dioxide atmosphere, it has gradually  been transformed into a habitable, self-sufficient society with one of the highest populations in the sector. During the Rule of Man, the world was selected from among several candidates by Terran colonists and was originally dubbed '51 Alpha' using the Roman numeral LI and the Greek letter α, which was eventually simplified to 'Lia'.

The colony was initially funded by the exorbitantly wealthy Corwin Corporation of Terra, which sought to prove that there are alternative paths to creating a habitable world and not all of them require a constant uptick in Tech Level. Corwin brought enormous stockpiles of raw materials and capital equipment to the system in preparation for the project. The world has intermittently and deliberately raised and dropped its Tech Level according to a perplexing and byzantine plan that eventually has Lia settling into a final, utopian state with a standard atmosphere, 60-percent hydrosphere, an expected 100 billion inhabitants at TL15 with an artificially intelligent computer running the show and effectively no government or Law Level to speak of.

Utopia continues to elude them but the Lians have indeed achieved a great deal during the nearly 3,000-year-long project. In the early going, colonists temporarily inhabited the system's airless rockball worlds while the initial terraforming stages were completed. An immense shield-mirror was installed to reflect the light of Lia's bright, whitish-yellow F-type star in order to cool the planet, thereby reducing its heat and atmospheric pressure, carbon dioxide was bled off by various methods, enormous amounts of hydrogen were imported from the system's gas giants to help create liquid water and a magnetic shield was built to prevent the thinned atmosphere from being stripped away. The real marvel is that most of this somehow occurred during the Long Night when the entire region was deprived of interstellar trade.

While the Lians have certainly achieved something remarkable, similar feats have been accomplished elsewhere in a much shorter period of time and considerably less effort. When the Imperium annexed the system, the Lians were struggling and yet refused all aid. Then numbering only 50 million people, they instituted a program of educational and industrial development that helped them rise to a peak of TL13 by the mid-500s. Having achieved that and stabilizing their world, they then allowed it to falter to a middling TL10, where it remains today. By the early 600s, many of the Lians had had enough and people began to leave the world in droves. In the following two decades, millions emigrated to the surrounding systems with the vast majority making their way to Night.

It is unknown whether the Lians will ever reach their utopia but the ongoing attempt shows no signs of abating. It stands to reason that their spirit of self- reliance and the effort of generation upon generation to achieve the goal is, in itself, the glue that holds society together.
