
Night is the origin world of the Oo-ne-beto-pon-tee or ‘the Whistlers’ as most humans call them. The Whistlers are a small species with an average mass of 25 kilograms and a length of 40–60 centimetres. They resemble large, fat and hairy caterpillars with up to 96 small legs, the front six of which are larger and more coordinated than the other 90.

Whistlers have four sexes: male, female, neuter and matcher. The males and females are the only Whistlers capable of reproduction, which they do with great alacrity. In fact, meeting to mate and produce offspring is their sole obsession. When not mating, they go dormant and recede into one of several crèche types until summoned by a matcher. Matchers use their well-developed olfactory senses to locate suitable males and females to mate and then match them with one another. Once found, they call them, sometimes over a distance of up to 20 kilometres, to travel to a designated location for mating purposes. Most calls are made at a frequency of 50kHz, so humans cannot hear them with the unaided ear. Mating is a long, drawn-out affair with rituals, feasting and ultimately the act of mating itself, all of which is presided over by the matcher, whose pheromones and musk make procreation possible. Matchers typically manage two to six mating pairs at a time so they are busy going from one site to another to follow the process through to completion. Once mating has been  accomplished, mating pairs are split up never to see one another again. It is assumed this is an adaptation that ensures genetic diversity.

The fourth Whistler sex is the neuter, incapable of reproduction. Neuters are the most industrious of all Whistlers and responsible for the construction of crèches, mating pagodas, airsails and just about any of the other contraptions the species uses. Neuters are the only sex that can ‘whistle’ in the lower frequencies and therefore the only ones who can speak with humans without the assistance of a frequency modulation device. In fact, neuters are also the only sex that is actually interested in speaking with humans. Matchers are far too busy matching and both males and females are either dormant or too obsessively engaged in the mating sequence to bother with anything else.

It is unknown when humans and Whistlers began interacting but the world was settled by the Vilani, so the relationship goes back millennia. It is likely that Whistlers had independently achieved TL1–2 based on the fossil record but no one really knows for sure. Solomani settlers came to Night during the Rule of Man, attracted by its rich natural resources and planetoid belts. The Solomani discovered – as the Vilani did before them – that living on the world of the Whistlers has an effect on human physiology. The pheromones and pollens given off by the creatures noticeably change human behaviour. While all humans can technically mate with one another provided there are no physiological ailments or other disabilities that prevent it, long-term exposure to the Whistlers causes humans to segment themselves into breeding groups. Males and females devote themselves to the practice of reproduction, aided by the skills of ‘matchers’ who- in the human adaptation of the practice – form the third part of a polyamorous threesome, which contain two males and a female or two females and a male. The ‘neuters’ among Night’s humans are physically capable of mating but choose a life of celibacy, focusing instead on the construction and maintenance of Night’s rather well-developed high- tech society. An interesting side effect enjoyed by the human neuters is a virtually unmatched ability to focus and concentrate on a task at hand. This supreme ability has enabled Night to achieve the Imperial maximum Tech Level in spite of the fact that the world receives relatively few visitors due to its isolated location.

The ‘Whistler effect’ wears off of most humans after a few months off planet. Those who leave Night often have a difficult time readjusting. Being born with strong biological imperatives and then having them stripped away has rather severe psychological effects and can cause depression and even suicide among those who leave. Departing humans also suffer withdrawal effects that can take weeks to overcome.

Night is designated as an Amber Zone to warn visiting Travellers of the effects that come from cohabitation with the world’s native intelligent species. The Imperial Navy base in the system maintains a mostly separate existence for obvious reasons but naval personnel may sometimes be found on planet for short periods of time, after which they are subjected to a physical examination and pollen cleansing to ensure no long-term effects occur.

The Imperial Navy and bureaucracy are keeping a close eye on Night. The effects of exposure to its native alien species are localised, and seem to wear off after a short period of time offworld, but should a mutation occur or some other happenstance by which the effects became permanent and could be exported to neighboring worlds, the Imperium could have a huge problem on its hands. The developing Imperium used to ‘cleanse’ such worlds in the past but now tries to manage them more carefully. At the very least, a Red Zone designation might be warranted should any changes occur in Night’s unique ecosystem.

#### Oo-ne-beto-pon-tee

> [!info]- CREATING OO-NE-BETO-PON-TEE (WHISTLER) TRAVELLERS
> Whistlers rarely leave Night but when they do they must typically take a decent number of their kind with them. The unique cooperation among the four sexes must be maintained at some level or they tend to wither and die. Some neuters are an exception and can become capable independent crew members aboard a starship or participating members of an alien society.
>
> When away from Night, a group of Whistlers spreads out into whatever abode they have been confined to, preferring to have space between each other until called upon by a matcher for the mating rituals. Neuters build various structures in anticipation of their use by the other three sexes. If brought onto a starship,Whistlers begin to have an effect on a human crew after 4–6 weeks that is similar to what occurs on Night. In fact, Whistlers have a similar effect on many alien races, including all Major Races except the Hivers, half of whom have no sense of smell.
> For the purposes of roleplaying, only the neuter sex is recommended. The extreme focus of matchers, males and females make them less-than-capable Travellers.
>
> ## CHARACTERISTICS
>
> Roll Whistler characteristics as follows: D3 for STR, END and SOC, 1D+4 for DEX, 2D-1 for INT and 2D for EDU. Whistlers are not actually less intelligent than the Major Races but the reduced Intellect reflects their extreme focus and specialization.
>
> ## TRAITS Whistlers have the following traits
>
> **Sticky Feet**: Whistlers have sticky and clawed feet that enable them to climb just about any surface.
> **Sneaky**: Whistlers automatically have Stealth 2 due to their quiet, unassuming natures.
> **High-frequency Communication and Perception**: Whistlers can hear sounds from an extremely low 20Hz to a high of 60kHz.

