
Reference is located at the nominal center of the Imperium and is almost exactly on the central plane of the galactic disc. It is the administrative headquarters of the IISS and the primary data storage archive of the Imperium.

The world has a long and convoluted history and has been known by many names. The Vilani called it Shiishuusdar, which was apparently the name of a despised member of their nobility. They used the planet to test new weapons systems, which explains many of the black craters and burn marks on its surface that are still visible today. The Vilani eventually installed an extensive data storage network deep in the bowels of the planet, upon one of which they stored a copy of the Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin (AAB), the sum total of Vilani historical knowledge. During the Interstellar Wars, the Solomani dismissed the planet as a worthless rockball and evacuated it but otherwise left it intact, never realising what it contained. Refugees from various worlds occupied its subterranean warrens during the Long Night, and called the planet Mamatava, but the colony died out after a few centuries. During the era of the Sylean Federation, the planet was renamed Aadkhien for the corporation that purchased it. Aadkhien eventually went bankrupt and once again, the world was left barren. The world was then rediscovered by the Scout Service in the early 300s, during the reign of Porfiria. The Scouts were in the midst of the First Survey and when investigating Aadkhien, they found the Vilani archives. This was a monumental discovery but it took the scouts years to decipher and replicate the computer interfaces needed to access the data in the archives. During the process, the IISS decided the world would also be an ideal location for the storage of an Imperial archive. They renamed the world Reference and immediately began to assemble a powerful computer network substrate which would serve as the backbone of the project. The project evolved over time from being a strictly data-oriented project to a dedicated storage site for artefacts and samples found throughout Imperial space and beyond.

Reference is now host not only to the Scout Service but also to Core Research Station Alpha and the prestigious University of Aadkhien, which specialises in astronomy, physics, cosmology, planetology and sophontology. The capital city of Reference is called Encyclopaediopolis, the city center including a grid of towers, each of which representing an Imperial sector and organised in the same order that they are found in Charted Space. Each tower is one kilometer long, 100 meters wide and a variable number of storeys tall, depending on how much space is required to store the data, artefacts, heirlooms and samples for the sector  it represents. Most towers are up to one and a half kilometers high. In some cases, the data and collected samples for several worlds can be contained on a single storey. In others, multiple storeys are required for a single world, such as Capital, Vland or Terra. Not all data is publicly accessible and there are secure rooms and vaults that contain confidential information and materials, some of which have remained secret for centuries. The sector towers are separated by four-kilometer-wide spaces within which there are residential districts, shopping centres and other amenities.

On the outskirts of Encyclopaediopolis, there are additional towers devoted to the Vargr Extents, Aslan Hierate, Zhodani Consulate, Hive Federation, the  Two Thousand Worlds and the Solomani Sphere, all of which are also organised as they are found on the map of Charted Space. There are also hundreds of warehouses on the southern periphery of the city that are used for the storage of items too dangerous, obsolete or in many cases too large to store within the borders of the city. The university and research station grounds are to the nominal north of the city but their respective grounds are linked to Encyclopaediopolis by a shared data network and maglev transportation system.

While the Encyclopaediopolis facilities are made open to Imperial citizens on a case-by-case basis, the vast majority of users are accredited scholars, students working on post-graduate theses, members of the Scout Service and other Imperial officials.

Reference is a key strategic resource for the Imperium and is well defended by the Imperial Navy and Scout Service. Two full naval squadrons are present in the system and the scouts  aintain both a fleet of auxiliary ships and a decommissioned Azhanti High Lightning-class cruiser that is reserved for important operations. The official name of the cruiser is that of the ancient Vilani archives, Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin , but the scouts call her the Librarian or ‘Libby’ for short. In addition to these, there are almost always elements from the Core Sector Fleet present in the system.

In addition to serving as custodians of Encyclopaediopolis, the scout base includes extensive training facilities and a specialized fleet of x-boats and tenders. When new and important discoveries are made, the x-boat fleet is activated and its spacecraft are sent to Capital and other key worlds. The last major data dump to Reference occurred in 1065 when the Second Grand Imperial Survey was completed.

#### ENCYCLOPAEDIOPOLIS

#### Second Reference

Reference contains the largest body of information and artefacts ever collected by Humaniti. The planet, and more specifically the data it contains, is of immense strategic importance to the Imperium. For that reason, the Imperium allegedly keeps a ‘Second Reference’ at some undisclosed location. Many x-boats and long-range scout/couriers are said to carry secure, encrypted updates to Second Reference frequently in order to keep the two facilities as synchronised as possible.

Information travels at the speed of jump and the same can be said for the preservation of Reference’s data stores. There is no other practical way to ensure this happens other than for starships to physically carry it there. That said, the location of this alleged Second Reference is a mystery. There are many rumors about its location, none of which have been confirmed by physical evidence. No starships have been directly tracked making the journey to Second Reference but then the scouts would do everything in their power to maintain its confidentiality. Some believe that a complete copy of Reference’s data is on Zikhi, the system at the exact opposite corner of the Core. Others believe it is far away on a remote system in the Empty Quarter. There are those who think it is not in the Imperium at all but in fact on an unincorporated world in Star’s End, perhaps Enola or Miramon.

The idea of a backup with a nearly complete copy of the data is entirely conceivable but there is simply no way to replicate the artefacts and samples at Reference. However, some surmise that Second Reference is the storage site for unusual samples and the most dangerous artefacts, perhaps Ancients devices that could pose a threat to Imperial security, should they fall into the wrong hands. All of this is idle speculation, of course.

Whatever the case may be, the Intelligence Branch of the Scout Service is tight-lipped about it and only those with the highest levels of authority and clearance know anything about Second Reference... that is, if it even exists.
