
**When** looking at the Core sector, one of its notable features is a complete lack of Red Zone worlds. A Red Zone designation indicates that a world or even entire star system has been interdicted for some reason. The Core certainly had its share of Red Zone-worthy worlds at one time but thousands of years of settlement, terraforming and adaptation has changed that. Indshiim Ganme was once one of its Red Zone worlds.

A look at its basic features reveals nothing out of the ordinary. Indshiim Ganme is roughly Earth-like in size and atmospheric composition. The majority of its surface is covered in water and it has only two small continents and thousands of islands scattered over its surface. Its primary star is a placid yellow dwarf, slightly smaller and cooler than Sol. Despite its seeming habitability, Indshiim Ganme suffers from a number of unusual characteristics that make it an extremely challenging environment.

Indshiim Ganme is blanketed by nearly constant storms with winds that reach up to 1,200 kilometers per hour, scouring its land masses of all but a few hardy life forms. The primary factors are its axial tilt of 52<sup>o</sup>, rotation period of only six hours and proximity to its star. The high rotation rate creates a strong Coriolis effect and dozens of Hadley cells that cause extreme weather effects. In addition, the world is on the inward portion of the habitable zone, subjecting it to a high level of stellar radiation, which accelerates its winds. Its atmosphere, magnetic field and other factors are suitable to support life but the added stellar energy exacerbates the world’s meteorological conditions, making it difficult for land-based life to exist.

This extreme environment was enough to deter colonists from settling the planet during the era of the Ziru Sirka. Solomani settlers also passed it by during the Rule of Man, opting only to install a space station in its L4 Lagrange point to serve as a stopover between the Likhamii, Ispumer and Khiinra Ash systems. Only in the era of the Third Imperium has there been an effort to explore the world. In 856, a Sylean expedition out of Khuir built a space elevator to the surface of the planet. The primary cable was built with bonded superdense alloys, making it strong enough to endure the harsh weather. The exorbitantly expensive project was a gamble but one which would pay off if they were able to find and extract resources from this potentially rich world.  The windswept surface of Indshiim Ganme revealed little in the way of valuable resources but surveys of its oceans made startling discoveries. The world is host to a plethora of advanced life forms, all of which live just beneath the surface of the water. The most advanced of these are an intelligent species of filter/scavengers that inhabit  epths of 20–100 meters and appear to have achieved approximately TL1–2. The Syleans have named them the Ganmeids. Most of their structures were built in cavern systems on escarpments and sea mounts that shielded them from discovery by orbital probes. An IISS exploration team was brought in to examine the species but contact has not yet been made. The expedition eventually became a colony based at the refurbished Rule of Man-era space station. No permanent habitations have been established on the surface of the planet, nor in its waters, but some resource extraction has occurred. The Scout Service has petitioned the Syleans to have the world interdicted but no final decision has yet been made.
