
The mainworld of the Markasher system is not a planet at all but simply one of the larger planetoids of its two belts, Markasher α (the inner belt) and Markasher β (the outer belt). This 'world' is fortuitously located in a less dense region between the two belts where collisions are rare. Most of the system's actual terrestrial planets are far into the outer zone of the system's orange giant star, Kalyptus. This star is well on its way along the red giant branch and will one day swell to enormous size, consuming both belts. Fortunately for Markasher's residents, this will not occur for many millions of years. The system has no gas giants so there are no ready sources for wilderness refuelling.

Markasher's rich belts have been exploited for centuries by the Conglomerate, a collection of mostly Sylean mining concerns whose leadership positions are passed on hereditarily or by the appointment of the previous owner. Markasheri mining 'clans' work in concert to extract the resources from the belts that are needed to build infrastructure for the high-population worlds of the Kashii subsector. Thousands of hollowed-out planetoids contain a variety of habitats, few of which have artificial gravity. In most cases, these planetoids have been given spin to simulate gravity but in others the belters live in low- or zero-G environments for their entire lives, which has an adverse effect on their health. Most of their maladies – muscle atrophy and osteoporosis, to name a few – can be treated with exercise, intervals spent in higher G and modern medicine but the austere Conglomerate does little to provide treatment. Aid groups from Mikhag Kuu have come to the system to purchase abandoned planetoid habitations, which they intend to outfit with artificial gravity so they can be used to provide 'regeneration intervals' for the Markasheri. The self-reliant government is not pleased with this development, as it could create unrest among the masses who might start to demand such services.

Inhabited planetoids are fitted with surveillance equipment that closely monitors the activities of Markasheri citizens, although allegedly this is only present to monitor the traffic of sublight mining barges and other spacecraft. Abnormalities in traffic and the movement of mineral payloads are watched closely to prevent claim jumping and smuggling. Markasher has an extremely high Law Level and a low tolerance for criminal behaviour. Relatively minor infractions have been known to result in one-way trips out of an airlock without the benefit of a vacc suit.

Markasher system has a soft interdiction in place. While Travellers are not forbidden to pass through the system, there is no official starport and no refuelling services to speak of. Any fuel present is owned by individual clans, who use it to operate sublight spacecraft. Visitors who enter the Markasher system without making arrangements ahead of time have no place to go. Unscheduled visitors have been known to sit in docking queues for weeks before being allowed to park their ships at one of the system's rudimentary spaceports. Stranded craft sometimes resort to 'ice cracking', finding a planetoid with frozen water, breaking it down and refining it for hydrogen fuel. This practice is forbidden and violators can expect anything from an extremely stiff fine to incarceration on a zero-G planetoid or, in extreme cases, ejection from an airlock.