---
date created: 2024-08-25 16:30
tags:
  - RB-A_and_W
---
# Lost Cities of Old Chorrsyr

Chorrsyr is supposedly the archaic name for a planet located a little off the main spacelanes. Like many such worlds, its inhabitants are largely clustered around the starport, with small settlements scattered over the rest of the planet. These are the current inhabitants, but like many worlds Chorrsyr has evidence of prior habitation. This is not uncommon; there are many worlds with signs of earlier, failed colonies or native intelligence species that died out or collapsed back to barbarism. Chorrsyr is a little different, however.

There are legends dating from the earliest days of colonisation that there were ‘other people’ on Chorrsyr. Record-keeping tends to be patchy during early settlement of a planet, and there is rarely time for detailed cultural studies of any inhabitants. Thus there are only a few tantalising hints that someone was here before the present inhabitants, and very little data on who they were or what they knew.

The previous inhabitants are referred to as ‘The Chorrsyr’ in these early records and the legends spun around them. They were, apparently, a more or less humanoid species who built great cities but are not known to be starfarers. They had a technological civilisation which thus far has defied classification. Some of the cities of the Chorrsyr still stand, though there are few artefacts to be found in them.

The Chorrsyr built in natural stone for some reason, but shaped it with advanced equipment whose capabilities matched that of modern fusion cutters. Their buildings were not tall compared with the grand spires of high- tech human cities, but still reached twenty or thirty storeys at times. There is no evidence of elevators within any of these buildings, just stone stairs and walled shafts that might have been used by free-floating gravitic lift platforms. Similarly, there is no evidence of a power distribution network or any power sources, but there are areas of stone that seem different to others and may have been light or heat sources.

These stone cities have withstood the ages well, and some are fairly intact despite their great age. Soil deposits have partially buried some, and others have collapsed for reasons unknown. Archaeological expeditions have uncovered parts of some cities, and have usually found the same thing – the city was abandoned and almost every single thing that could be removed was taken away by... someone. A few artefacts have been found, mostly of shaped stone or ceramic materials. Some are extremely mundane, such as spoons and needles, but are exclusively made from non-metallic materials.

Chorrsyr is not short of metals, which makes their lack of use an enigma. Scientists have concluded that the Chorrsyr did not originate on this world, as they could not have developed a technological society capable of making their advanced ceramic materials without passing through a metal-using stage. However, there is a counter-theory that the Chorrsyr were highly psionic and could shape materials without the need for tools. This does not explain the choice of ceramics rather than metals, unless of course the Chorssyr’s psionic powers were weakened by metal. This is nothing but supposition to support an already shaky theory, however.

What is known for sure is that the Chorrsyr left behind evidence of capabilities perhaps beyond but certainly different from those of the modern inhabitants, and therefore worthy of studies. Most of the easily accessible city-ruins are located in areas later built on and thus obliterated, but those in more remote areas have survived long enough to be examined by modern scientists.

The ‘best’ sites, i.e. those that have produced the greatest concentration of artefacts or have the most or largest surviving buildings, are the site of scientific expeditions. Some of these sites have several rival groups excavating or competing for – sometimes even fighting over – the best prospects for artefacts. Some ruins located in very remote areas are all but untouched, and there are rumours of cities still awaiting discovery or secretly being excavated by shadowy projects.

The cities of the Chorrsyr have a strange feeling about them. This is not over obvious in those that have a significant number of researchers in them, but a small group or an individual cut off from contact with others will tend to find the cities disturbing and oppressive... and somehow sad. Various explanations have been put forward, mainly revolving around shapes and light patterns as well as the rather obvious psychological effect of an empty, ruined city. Others have more
‘fringe’ explanations, including the persistent myth that the cities are somehow aware and are lonely since their people died. There is no basis for this theory in observable facts, but nevertheless it has gained popularity in recent years. There is also a gold-rush story associated with the lost cities of old Chorrsyr; the idea that somewhere awaiting discovery is the motherlode of artefacts assembled by the dying people of Chorrsyr. Where reputable scientists painstakingly pick through the debris in search of small items, treasure-hunters have been known to blast their way into a suspected site in the hope of looting it.

People come to the lost cites for three main reasons; treasure-hunting, careful and deliberate science, and to experience or somehow commune with the ancient cities of old Chorrsyr. Clashes between these agendas are inevitable, and were the rumoured motherlode to be found widespread violence might be the result.