#### Naval Fuel Depots

In the event that war breaks out in the [[Spinward Marches]], elements of the [[Deneb Sector|Deneb]] and [[Corridor Sector|Corridor]] sector fleets will be transferred to reinforce the local fleet. This is an immense undertaking, requiring months, at best, and much longer if the fleet has to stop to refuel along the way. To facilitate these large-scale redeployments, a series of deep-space fuel caches has been deployed.  The fleet will jump to these rather than inhabited star systems and tankers can collect fuel from the caches to get ahead of the fleet and provide rapid refuelling.

This system allows the Imperial Navy to make best use of its standard jump-4 capability, whereas using the normal spacelanes might restrict the fleet to an average of 3 parsecs or less per jump. It does, however, absorb considerable manpower just to keep caches stocked and maintained, and deployments are dull and lonely.  The existence of the caches is supposedly secret but too many naval personnel have mustered out after pulling a hitch at one for their existence and location to remain completely secret. Without very precise coordinates, no other ship could find a cache other than by extremely careful long-range sensor operations using high-quality equipment. Thus, caches are kept secure by the vastness of space (although, in theory, a location could be obtained from a disabled naval vessel's secure computer archives).

The caches are enormous, but made up of little more than fuel tanks plus a docking station for tugs and support craft. They are used by the navy's courier network from time-to-time – enough fuel for one jump-6 courier will never be noticed – enabling the fleet to not only move information fast but to do so without anyone knowing a courier has passed. This capability lies at the heart of all manner of conspiracy theories, although in reality most urgent messages that pass this way deal with minor situations requiring a lone cruiser rather than all-out war with some major power.