# RED ZONE
A Red Zone is an interdiction. It may apply to a single world or the entire system. Enforcement depends on the nature of the interdiction and the powers available to police it. If a large interstellar polity such as the Third Imperium imposes a Red Zone on a system within its borders it may be enforced by the Imperial Navy or the Scout Service and the nature of the enforcement could be anything from a squadron of battleships to a few remote observation satellites transmitting a warning message. Especially hazardous natural forces, primitive or hostile natives or the use of the aftermath of the use of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) may be cause for a Red Zone. Sometimes a Red Zone is put in place to guard a secret or an artefact. 

Any system could become a Red Zone because of an unforeseen situation such as a plague, ongoing nuclear war or impending impact of a civilisation-ending asteroid. Likewise, the manner of enforcement can vary world social characteristics from an automated warning to attacks without warning and the penalties for violation can vary from a monetary fine, to confiscation of a starship to summary execution.

Some interdictions apply to an entire system, some to only a specific world, usually the indicated mainworld. In general, unless the threat is system-wide – such as in a protostar system or a war between spacefaring combatants – the interdiction is limited to the mainworld and ships may be able to pass through the system and perform wilderness refuelling, possibly under the watchful eye of an interdiction force.

