---
date created: 2024-08-25 16:30
tags:
  - RB-A_and_W
---
# The Acid Mists of Eight-Eleven

Eight-Eleven gets its nickname from the standard atmosphere designation code – eight signifies a dense atmosphere and eleven represents a corrosive one. Most worlds have only a single code, but Eight-Eleven is thus named because parts of its atmosphere are breathable but dense whilst low-lying areas are subject to a corrosive fog. Habitation is possible on high ground, and it is here that the world’s small population dwells. Plants and animals imported from other planets cannot survive below a certain altitude, and as a result Eight-Eleven has essentially two ecosystems.

On the high plateaux, a fairly typical selection of familiar creatures has largely taken over most ecological niches. Life is a struggle for some species since the corrosive elements found at lower altitudes can be lifted up by weather conditions and fall – albeit in highly diluted form – as acid rain. However, the people of Eight-Eleven are able to support themselves through farming and herding, and have built a stable society.

Between the high habitable zone and the lowlands is a region where the soil is increasingly tainted with corrosive compounds and offworld life finds it increasingly difficult to survive. Native plants have the opposite problem, since they require acid conditions that become increasingly sparse at higher altitudes. The transition zone is marked by unhealthy examples of both native and offworld species competing for dominance in an environment hostile to both. This is a useful marker for offworlders; it is safe enough to enter the transition zone but descending much below it risks contamination.

Around sea level, Eight-Eleven’s atmosphere contains a suspension of mildly corrosive compounds which render it opaque, shrouding the lowlands in a permanent blanket of greenish fog which billows in the wind and can be lifted up to higher altitudes by wind conditions. A windy day can cause the fog to visibly run up a hillside, causing a phenomenon known locally as acid waves. As altitude increases the fog thins, becoming a haze and finally clearing completely.

The acid mist is unbreathable to humans of course, and would cause fatal damage to the lungs and respiratory system after just a few minutes’ exposure. However, it is only mildly corrosive in most regions. It is generally possible to function even at sea level with a simple gas-tight suit and breathing mask, and vehicles such as an ATV will usually resist the corrosive effect for several weeks. Providing it is used for forays of only a day or two into the lowlands, and is thoroughly decontaminated (with the odd component replaced during frequent maintenance) an ATV of similar heavy-duty vehicle could be used almost indefinitely on Eight-Eleven.

Personnel venturing into the upper regions of the transition zone are generally in no danger unless wind or temperature conditions cause a wave of dense fog to roll up particularly high. Further down the risk increases, but in general it does so in a fairly gradual manner. In most cases, a filter mask with eye coverage is sufficient protection from a concentration visible as a thin haze or the brief surge of an acid wave. Exposed skin will blister after a while but there will be no serious long-term effects unless exposure is prolonged for several hours. Venturing deeper into the haze requires full-body protection.

The perpetual fog in low-lying areas and the general hostility of the environment have created what is to a great extent a separate world which the inhabitants of Eight-Eleven know little about. Both plants and animals are tough and hardy, and it is known that there are large and aggressive predators in the misty valleys. The ecosystems of the acid-fogged valleys have not been extensively researched and in many cases there are not even reliable maps of the terrain.

As is usual with such an unknown environment, there are rumours about what is down there. The acid mists have to come from somewhere, though tales about jets of corrosive gas coming out of the rocks seem rather unlikely. Claims that there are acidic lakes from whose surface the corrosive vapour constantly rises seem more plausible. The question of what might live in such a lake has not yet been answered.

Expeditions have been launched to explore the lowland regions or to study the life found there, but data is patchy at best. Poor visibility makes driving a vehicle hazardous even when using radar and other sensors to assist, though the images from these sensors are intriguing. Much has been made of vague shapes outlined on radar or thermal displays, and in all probability they are just rocks or other natural formations. There are other possibilities however, and inevitably there are those who insist that something much more interesting has been found.

The least likely theories claim that these dim shapes in the acid mist are stranger and frightening creatures, some of which will attack unwary explorers. More plausible ideas include the possibility that there might be crashed spacecraft in the lowlands. This concept has some basis in reality; ships do occasionally suffer drive problems on approach or takeoff and could end up downed in a valley. If so, the ship would probably retain the ability to support life for some time but escape or rescue would be a problem. A very old ship, predating the settlement of Eight-Eleven, would be no more than a mangled clump of twisted metal.

There is also the possibility that the acid conditions of the lowlands might have been the natural environment of a race that developed sentience, and that artefacts or ruins still exist. No evidence has ever been discovered, but little of the lowlands has been even cursorily explored. It is an outside possibility that ‘fogmen’ or
‘fog-beasts’ of some kind do live in the deep valleys. If so, they would find the environment at higher altitudes entirely unsuitable and possibly fatal, so there would be little chance of encounters between these hypothetical fog-dwellers and the colonists of Eight-Eleven’s plateaux.