---
date created: 2024-08-25 16:30
tags:
  - RB-A_and_W
---
# The Krenall Effect

It is well known that a massive body such as a star or planet affects Jumpspace emergences within a volume of space around it. This is normally referred to as the ‘100-diameter limit’ though this is a rule of thumb based on average planetary densities rather than a hard-and-fast physical law. Jumping out from within the 100-diameter limit is dangerous; jumping in is impossible. This means that some star systems have quite large regions into which it is not possible to jump, forcing ships to make a long normal-space transit to reach port and to haul back out again to a safe jump distance.

The Krenall Effect, named after the scientist who first quantified it, is a hotly-debated concept. The Krenall Effect is a much larger than predicted ‘jump shadow’ which extends far out beyond the 100-diameter limit of any known body. The effect is not always uniform; there are sometimes areas that it is safe to jump into or out of within a wider region that is ‘shadowed’ and impossible to enter. Conditions can also vary over time, creating a window during which normal jump operations are possible.

It has been suggested that large-scale jump shadowing (far beyond the 100-diameter limit) is actually the norm, and that the present situation, in which what is viewed as normal jump conditions prevail, is artificially imposed or maintained in some manner. There is no hard evidence of this, just some questionable mathematical predictions and the widespread belief that ‘ancient geniuses left stuff lying around to bamboozle us’ which pervades many crank theories and possibly some sound ones too.

Be that as it may, there are a few star systems where the Krenall Effect is active, either constantly or on a semi-predictable time scale. These systems must be navigated in normal space from a jump point in the far outsystem, creating long transit times that make most commercial activity unviable. It is also difficult to patrol such systems with naval vessels, making them ideal places to hide a base or to build an isolationist community. Those systems with a periodic Krenall Effect are essentially cut off from the outside universe for much of the time, and any ship visiting runs the risk of being stranded. Where the period of isolation is short, this is not too much of a problem – waiting a day or two for a jump window is expensive for merchant craft but rarely life-threatening unless there are serious dangers to be fled – but where the period is months or years the system tends to be bypassed wherever possible.

This is one reason for otherwise very habitable worlds to have an extremely low population compared to the rockball mainworld of the next system. Isolation might not matter to some prospective colonists, but interstellar trade is essential to the growth of a viable economy and therefore a technological society. In a system where trade is difficult or dangerous due to the Krenall Effect, establishing a major colony might simply not be worth the effort, and any society that exists there will have difficulty growing beyond a modest size. There may be numerous such systems throughout settled space, affecting patterns of settlement. It is rumoured that there are regions several parsecs across which are constantly or intermittently subject to the Krenall Effect, rendering them highly dangerous or effectively impassable. These regions act as barriers to expansion and exploration, and may contain previously unknown alien races.

The question of why the Krenall Effect occurs has never been answered. Many claim that there is an artificial source, possibly left behind by vanished alien geniuses, but the prevailing scientific opinion is simply that we do not yet fully understand the universe. It follows its own rules, and we do not yet know all of them.