# The Annililik Run

The legendary 'silk road' between [[Vland]] and [[Capital]] is known as the Annililik Run. The route between the two worlds was of great importance at the dawn of the Third Imperium, linking the two capitals during an era when the intervening space was strewn with pirates and the remains of civilizations blighted by the Long Night. Contact between Sylea and Vland was established centuries before the advent of the Third Imperium but few ship captains had the nerve to travel between the two worlds. Traders could make a decent living plying routes in the relative safety of their own pocket empires and only those with a lust for fame and adventure attempted the Annililik Run. Those who completed it with their hides intact became celebrities, many of whom leveraged their fame to acquire greater social standing and prosperity.

The route was perilous for a number of reasons, not the least of which was the distance across reaches of space that had not been travelled much for centuries. Right out of the gates from Vland, you have a number of star systems with no gas giants, which makes wilderness refuelling a challenge. While hydrogen may also be obtained by extracting it from liquid water on planets with a hydrosphere, there are often regulations that prevent this practice on inhabited worlds. There are several minor stellar chasms along the way as well and chokepoints at the Vliishuug (now called Inader) and Karnika systems. Savvy traders took bypasses, of course, but every deviation from the main route meant more jumps and thus more exposure to potential pirate attacks, equipment failure or other perils. Many traders became lost along the route, some never to be seen or heard from again. Lost traders were often said to have vanished into the 'Annililik Pyramid', a mysterious phenomenon that mercilessly gobbled up wayward starships.

The Annililik Run became somewhat safer as the Long Night came to an end and [[Capital]] benefited immensely from increased traffic along the route. Linking old Vland with newly minted [[Capital]] lent the fledgling Third Imperium an air of validity at a time when its prospects for success were very much in doubt. It also enabled [[Capital]] to seed Vland with Fusion Plus technology, one of the cornerstones of Cleon Zhunastu's outreach program to the worlds around Sylea. As the route became safer, larger and more capable merchant convoys began to make the Run. This resulted not only in the enrichment of many merchant lines but also in a cultural exchange between empires old and new, laying the groundwork for the eventual incorporation of Vland into the Third Imperium.

In modern times, a race between Vland and [[Capital]] is held once every four gurkula (a Vilani 'year', each of which is approximately 478.7 standard days) to commemorate the Annililik Run. The two worlds alternate as starting and finish lines for the race; after an Annililik Run is completed in one direction, it reverses course the next time the event is held. If ever there were a fitting interstellar analogue to the ancient Terran fable of the 'Tortoise and the Hare', this race is it. Ships are limited to jump-2 and up to 600 tons. The race has dual objectives, the first of which is to make the Run in an allotted period of time. The distance between Vland and [[Capital]] is 60 parsecs and a jump-2 ship can make it between the two systems in about 31 jumps if the most direct route is taken. Contestants are expected to make the run in 60–75 weeks. Late arrivals are disqualified. The second objective is to make money. The Annililik Run is, after all, a commemoration of a famous trade route. Besides that, there are very few contestants who have the Credits to travel so far without making money to cover expenses along the way. Contestants may take on freight, mail, speculative cargo and passengers. The most reputable ships are often fully booked with mid and high passages before they even begin the Run.

The Annililik Run is more about efficiency than speed. The rules allow for contestants to purchase fuel at registered starports or extract it from gas giants, comets, icy planetoids and other natural resources. Each jump must be to an inhabited star system, so leapfrogging between worlds by jumping into empty space and using fuel from a collapsible fuel tank is not allowed. Fuel costs are recorded and subtracted from one's totals at the end of the race. Some star systems along the route are backwaters that see little traffic when the race is not being run. Not surprisingly, many of them take advantage of the situation and have been known to price gouge for fuel, maintenance and other services. To combat this, some contestants scout the route ahead of time and seed it with fuel caches to reduce costs and speed up their transit times. This practice is strictly forbidden by the rules but has proven to be difficult to enforce.

One would think that the modern Third Imperium would not be a place for superstition and myth but tales of the Annililik Pyramid persist. Very few ships are lost during the event but those that do disappear are commonly believed to have been consumed by the Pyramid. There are rational explanations for most disappearances: deviating too far off the main route and failing to return, quitting the race, engine failure and piracy to name just a few. While the latter is extremely rare in the civilised heart of the Imperium, the high amount of traffic passing along the Run makes it too tempting to pass up for those of a predatory nature. Most of the culprits are merely opportunistic part-time villains who look for the weak among the herd and strike where they can, victimising unarmed ships that stray off the beaten path.

Despite the competitive nature of the event, many ship crews engage in a level of camaraderie along the way. Contestants meet each other at starport bars to tell tall tales, gossip about fellow competitors and trade rumors. However, not all exchanges are friendly. The crews of competing ships often try to misdirect their opponents with red herrings to throw them off the main route. False stories are planted about big scores to be had, low-priced fuel, minable comets that turn out not to be there, essentially anything that can slow down or befuddle other racers. Wise and experienced ship captains learn to separate truth from fiction. Competing crews often develop enmity with one another and friendly competition sometimes morphs into heated rivalries. Many a starport brawl has broken out between rivals along the route. In extreme cases, this escalates into a bout of ship combat but firing upon one another is a severe breach of the rules and grounds for immediate disqualification, so it rarely happens.

As the event has gained in popularity, corporate sponsorships have become a big boon to Travellers who make the Annililik Run. Corporations tend to sponsor only proven winners, contestants who have made the Run in the past and shown well. Contestants sponsored by the top corporations typically sweep the main categories of the event. Their ships are highly maintained, possess the best technology available and have skilled, well-trained crews. The event garners so much media attention that participating corporations gain a great deal of publicity simply from having their logos adorn the hulls of sponsored ships. While collusion between contestants is prohibited, those who are sponsored by the same corporation get away with a few subtle advantages. Most of them run analytics software that tracks their opponents and shares the data among other ships that have the same sponsor. Independent tramp traders have none of these advantages but some still manage to show well by employing a combination of skill, cleverness and more than a little chutzpah. It should be noted that not all corporate sponsors are on the up and up. Some are fraudulent or shady front organizations that take Credits from would-be contestants and others are failing companies that fail to provide the promised support. Travellers must take caution when establishing a relationship with a potential sponsor. There are private investigation firms on both Vland and [[Capital]] whose specialty is investigating sponsors but their services do not come cheap.

There are many distractions for the contestants, especially the most famous ones and those who are leading the pack. Media outlets flock to their ships to get the latest news and many worlds roll out the proverbial red carpet as the ships make their way along the Run. Worlds like Karnika – generally considered the gateway to the Core for race participants – create a festive environment including armed escorts and a 'parade path' from the 100-diameter limit to the highport or downport. With all the pomp and circumstance, it is easy for a contestant to get side-tracked; only those with the utmost degree of professionalism know best how to manage the media, politicians, fans and all of the other distractions with grace and aplomb. Corporate-sponsored ships are expected to engage with the public to some degree. Petulant captains and crews can lose their sponsorships if they are overly curt or rude.

Reaching the finish line is just the beginning. Until the 75 th week has passed, the locals at [[Capital]] or Vland watch and wait as more and more contestants roll in. A leader board forms, ranking the contestants with an algorithm based on the speed and efficiency with which they made the Run along with a measure of their profits. There are many categories to win but the top award goes to the ship that achieved the best balance of speed and net income. The Grand Champion is given an enormous cash prize and gains fame and fortune to last a lifetime.

For some, making the Annililik Run is a once-in-a-lifetime adventure, a break from the norm and an adventure they will never forget. After a Run is completed, most contestants return to their lives as crewmembers on liners, freighters and tramp traders. For others, the Annililik Run is a way of life. Many of them establish a migratory lifestyle around the event. For example, a contestant might make the Run to [[Capital]] and then spend the intervening years before the next race plying the trade routes of the Core, only to come back to [[Capital]] to prepare for the next race. When they arrive in Vland, more than four garkula later, they ply the routes of Vland for a while and so forth. The Annililik Run has a culture and tradition all its own that seems to have captured the imagination of Imperial citizens. Its popularity seems to grow with each passing year.
