# Traveller Adventures

The Spinward Marches setting has been the backdrop for Traveller adventures for three decades and still has plenty of scope for more. With a little bit of imagination, the possibilities for adventure within the Marches is limitless.

Many adventures fall into one of several general types, some of which are uniquely 'Traveller' whilst others are more generic. Exactly what 'feels right' to any given Referee or group of players can vary considerably. Some adventure types are outside the usual Traveller experience and may jar with the setting as it is perceived by many players. This does not mean that playing a game of this type is somehow prohibited; the whole point of roleplaying games is that they can be tailored to the preferences of each group of players.

Thus, what is written here is in no way a prohibition on any type or style of play. It represents a set of guidelines to illustrate how the mainstream Traveller universe looks, feels and responds to player actions. However, the only really useful rule is – if it is fun and you are happy with it, do it.

### Motivation, Science and Technology

Although Traveller has starships, FTL travel and psionic powers, it is basically a 'hard science' setting. This means that there should be a reason for everything, even if that reason is unknown or even incomprehensible to the players.

Where the motivation of non–player characters, even very alien ones, follow some kind of logic, the setting becomes that much richer and more believable. This does not mean that the players will understand everything that happens, nor that the Referee needs to have detailed notes on every character's personality. However, the game universe needs to be sufficiently consistent that odd behaviour attracts interest.

For example, if a Non Player Character suddenly becomes violent when asked a certain question, that should provoke the adventurers to wonder why. In a consistent game universe such an event would be unusual, but if Non Player Characters behave in an unpredictable manner all the time, there may be nothing to indicate that this event is significant.

Of course, the characters may never find out why their Droyne acquaintance suddenly stops in the middle of the street and began to emit a weird keening sound while performing some kind of slow– motion dance. Droyne often display behaviour that seems odd to outsiders and they rarely explain themselves. The Referee does not need to worry about exactly why the Droyne behaves like this unless it is relevant to the storyline – it is a piece of colour detail that serves to remind everyone that Droyne are different to humans. The important thing is that the rest of the universe is consistent enough that the players are willing to believe that there is a reason.

Note that bizarre alien behaviour still needs to make some kind of sense, even if the reasons for it are unknown. A Droyne stopping in the middle of the road, oblivious to traffic and other hazards, is ignoring its survival instincts. That suggests that something significant is occurring. Aliens that do odd things from time to time are believable. Aliens that randomly self–immolate just because they are weird and alien are not.

The same goes for science and technology. Although high technology may bend the rules of physics as we know them, generally speaking there needs to be a certain level of consistency in the game universe in order to make it both believable and possible to make plans in.

Thus, as an example, unless an artificial gravity field is in use, gravity should always work as advertised. Planets and moons will follow predictable orbits. This means that when a ship's sensors pick up an asteroid in an orbit that cannot possibly exist naturally, the players know that something odd is going on.

This also makes it possible to use logic and good planning to assist raw die rolls. If the characters are searching for a lost scout vessel and find an asteroid that is off its normal path, a smart player may conclude that it has been disturbed by a collision and decide to check the charts for the asteroid's normal orbit and match its current path with that orbit. The difference will be due to the collision and that will give the characters a starting point for their search, as their ship's computer should be able to model possible collision parameters and suggest possible vectors for the wreck to have bounced off at.

This is an example of the use of logic to solve an in–game puzzle, or at least gain a clue. It is of course entirely possible to use a simple make–a–skill–roll approach to this sort of search, but the successful application of logical thought is more satisfying for the players and, arguably, what hard–science games are all about.

Certain kinds of technology are usually downplayed in Traveller. These include, but are not limited to, cybertechnology and neural/ physical enhancements, nanotechnology and 'magical' technologies like hard holograms. The latter might be possible at extremely high technologies but for the most part Traveller takes the view that holograms are just light. You can see them, and hear the sounds that go with them, but you cannot create an artificial world with them. This varies from Referee to Referee of course. Some like the idea of holo–adventures; others do not. The same goes for force fields and related technologies. High technology levels in Traveller do permit repulsor and, eventually, tractor beam units but there are no personal force fields or similar items common in many other science fiction settings. These things can make life a bit too easy for adventurers, and nobody wants that. Even psionic teleportation, rare as it is, has severe restrictions regarding how far a character can go with it. This means that instead of teleporting from place to place, slapping forcefields over hull breaches or using them to contain intruders, and sticking a tractor beam on a distressed vessel to pull it to safety, Traveller characters have to do everything the hard way. Ground to orbit travel is by shuttle or landing the ship. Boarders are repelled with guns and blades. Hull breaches are manually patched while the air blasts out around your ears. And if you want to tow something, you have to go over there and manually attach a line. This is a good thing. Traveller is about 'people doing stuff'. Traveller adventures should center on the characters, not the technology they use. Anyone can push a button and tractor the distressed shuttle to safety or build a gizmo to fix the escaped nuclear particle problem in engineering. It takes a hero to don a vacc suit and leap across the gap to haul the crew out of their wrecked shuttle, or to climb carefully past the venting coolant pipes as the radiation counter creeps towards a lethal dose. As to cybertech and nanotechnology, the general assumption is that they are present but not the focus of an adventure. A given Referee's Traveller universe may make use of neural jacking and cyberware, but once again it is far less interesting to jack into a computer system from a motel somewhere and obtain the necessary information than to creep into a hostile area and physically access the computers there. Nanotechnology is also best downplayed, as it can result in a rather dull game universe, or at least one where the characters are not captains of their own fate. A short–term nanotech virus shield that allows characters to enter a quarantine zone to perform their mission sounds like a useful plot device, and incidentally imposes a
'clock' on the characters. Total immunity to disease due to nanotech, or the ability to gulp down nanotech 'healing potions' to quick–fix combat damage are outside the mainstream Traveller experience. That is not to say that your games cannot run like that, merely that the baseline Traveller universe does not use these things. Apart from anything else, some technologies make the setting less fun. There is no need to undertake interstellar commerce if anything needed can be easily produced by nanites. Characters can become more or less redundant in a universe where their ship is fixed by nanobots every time they crash it or get shot at, or where the super– smart ship's computer can handle the crew's jobs. What is left for the characters to do in such a universe? They will find something, no doubt, but a universe where people have to do things for themselves has so many more opportunities for adventure. Worlds as Adventure Settings Spinward Marches sector contains over 400 star systems. Each of them has a mainworld with its own characteristics, and while it is possible for two mainworlds to have the same UWP code, these two planets will not actually be identical. The UWP code is merely a starting point. Two worlds with the same size, atmosphere and hydrographics codes can still be very different from one another. Slight variations in orbital eccentricity or distance can create very different conditions on–planet. One might be a garden world while the other is hammered by raging storms on a regular basis. However, even within a given world there will be considerable variance. Only in Hollywood are there desert worlds, forest worlds, ice planets and so forth. Most worlds will have a range of terrain with mountains, plains and swampy areas being present even on a heavily forested world. A desert planet is unlikely to be 100% dry. There may be oases, regions of scrubby semi–desert and the like. Similarly a water world may be totally covered by water, but is likely to have some islands and even small continents poking up above the surface. The general characteristics of a planet are only a guideline. However, much can be inferred from these characteristics. On a world with a thin atmosphere, erosion due to wind effects will not be so great, which might lead to higher or sharper–edged mountains than somewhere with denser air. Less erosion means less particles to form part of the soil, which could imply a less fertile world than might otherwise be the case. Vegetation might be taller and more slender if there is less air movement to drag at large plants. This is even more likely if the world has lower than standard gravity, which is generally the case with smaller worlds. Much the same comments apply to the social characteristics of a UWP (Population, government and law level). One democracy is not necessarily like another, for example. Note that the government code is simply the one that best fit, chosen from a list by a survey team and possibly not updated in a very long time. Even when the code is accurate, it may be misleading. For example, travellers may visit a world listed as a dictatorship, to find that in fact the 'dictator' is in fact a figurehead monarch who carries out state functions and ratifies the democratically elected government as a nicety of law. Although the world calls itself a kingdom and has an actual king, leading the survey team to enter it in the database as a dictatorship, it does not function as one.

This works the other way around, too. What is theoretically a republic might be a dictatorship in all but name, or might have such a restricted voting class that it is more of a oligarchy than a democratic state. Until the travellers have visited a world and lived amongst its people they will not really understand how its society works and will miss the more subtle nuances.

As a general rule higher law levels tend to be associated with police states and other oppressive societies, however this is not always the case. Some democratic and very pleasant societies have immense bodies of law and regulations for virtually everything. Nor does the amount of restrictions in place entirely indicate the level of enforcement. On some high–law worlds many infractions are routinely ignored or are enforced in a patchy fashion by overworked or corrupt police forces.

Low law level generally indicates that there are not many restrictions in place, but it could be that those few that exist all carry huge penalties. Zero law is not the same thing as tolerance for any kind of behaviour. People are not suicidally stupid; they may have no laws against people marching down the main street in powered armor armed with advanced military weapons, but if it seems likely that someone is going to start randomly shooting people or taking property away from others ('It's not stealing if there's no law, right?') then they may encounter a very robust response.

Zero law can occur in different ways and mean entirely different things. Some places are genuine and voluntary anarchies or are frontier societies with no formal law or enforcement system. In such places it may well be accepted that nobody has a right to give orders to anyone else. However, most such places have a 'code' of some kind and this normally includes respect for property and other people. Going outside the range of acceptable behaviour may not be illegal but it may result in the whole town turning against the character, running him out of town at gunpoint if he is lucky.

Alternatively, law and order might have broken down, in which case there normally will be an unofficial system in place, amounting to gun law – those with the most and best–armed followers can dictate what others may or may not do. Such places tend to be dangerous but are ultimately self–correcting in many cases. Whoever emerges on top in the lawless period will usually set some rules and in time this becomes the new body of law, however rough and ready it may be.

A world's population digit gives an indication of the amount of people on a planet, but little more than that. It is not possible to tell from a UWP code how the population is distributed. A population in the tens of millions is normally required for a significant industrial base if it is distributed over a reasonable area. However, a world with half a million people living in the immediate area of the starport, and virtually no–one else on the entire rest of the planet, could support a reasonable amount of industry and perhaps make some money on exports.

On the other hand, a hundred million people living in scattered villages all across the planetary surface would not be able to produce much, nor undertake large–scale projects. However, they would not usually need to; local craftsmen should be sufficient to keep a small town running. Only when large numbers of people begin to concentrate in one place are great works needed.

The population code is to some extent a guideline only. It normally lists only the permanent population. Transient workers, the personnel and dependants of an offworld–run Starport or an Imperial base, and similar non–permanent residents, are not counted for purposes of the UWP listing. Nor, sometimes, are the members of a minor race sharing the world with the listed population.

There may also be other groups either missed by the survey or not significant enough to include. A population of even a few hundred million people will not entirely fill up a planet, and there may be small populations in remote areas. These could be anything: dissidents, a corporate mining operation, a religious group seeking seclusion, unlicensed colonists carving out a home for themselves or anything else the Referee wants to use.

Thus it is possible to set many different adventures on a world, often in very different circumstances. On 21st–Century Terra, it would be possible to become involved with the seedy underworld of an industrial city, undertake archaeological work in an unpopulated outback region, search for ruins in a rain forest, rescue the crew of a sinking nautical vessel, explore the ice caps, become involved in the struggles of outback farmers, fight in a war between rival factions in a previously civilised area, and to have all manner of other adventures, each in a different setting. There is a tendency among players to be blinded by the UWP, and to treat each dot on the star system hex map as a single location. Many times adventurers visit a world and have an adventure there, then move on thinking they have 'done' that world. To do so is to miss out on the vast potential that each star system offers. There is, after all, only so much information that can be conveyed by a UWP code and the closer the adventurers get to something, the more detail emerges. A UWP code or a three–line guidebook entry is sufficient to get an overview of a place from a couple of parsecs away, but it is not until the place is fleshed out by the Referee and experienced by the players that its true character begins to emerge. Star Systems As Adventure Settings The mainworld, varied as it is as an adventure setting, is not the only possible one. The whole of the star system can be used. There will generally only be one habitable world in any given system, and that world will dominate the immediate area around it if orbital craft or space vessels are available. Thus any moons of the mainworld, as well as orbital stations and the Highport, if any, will be closely associated with the mainworld. Commercial and scientific installations, mining colonies, military bases and similar facilities are likely to be set up on a world's moons. It is not uncommon to mount tracking stations and missile or other weapon platforms on a moon. However, further out in the system, different conditions apply. Gas giants, if any are present, may have several moons that can be colonized. There may be one or more planetoid belts, and the presence of rocky planets is likely in most systems. Each of these places can be home to an installation of some kind, and can be an adventure setting even if there is no population. High–technology mainworlds with an extensive system defence flotilla tend to control their entire system, with colonies and outposts on the various bodies. Lower–tech worlds not only cannot colonize these bodies, but are unable to stop anyone else from doing so. Thus there may be populations of Belters and/or corporate mining vessels working a belt or the moons of a gas giant. A rocky planet or a moon could be home to an entirely separate culture from that of the mainworld, or could be the site of a base owned and operated by the Imperial military or a Megacorporation. Other installations are also possible, such as independent freeports set up deep in the outsystem. Corsair bases or secret research installations may be concealed in a planetoid belt or out in the Oort Cloud, the shell of planetoids and comets that surrounds many star systems at truly vast distances. Even without a current population, a moon or asteroid could be the site for an adventure. Ancient ruins, wrecked starships or just the chance to strike it rich with a mineral claim could all bring adventurers to an otherwise overlooked location. Some star systems contain more than one star, and occasionally these companion stars have objects orbiting them. A planet more habitable than the mainworld is unlikely, as this would probably have been settled instead. However, there may be gas giants (with or without moons), planetoids and rocky planets in the 'companion' system, though often there is little more than a few comets. Many of these companion systems are uninhabited, but they do make good places to hide precisely because they are off the beaten track, and there is no way to tell what may be concealed there. There is one other possible adventure setting within any star system – a starship. An entire adventure can unfold aboard a ship in Jumpspace or within a star system. The former is good for pressure–cooker adventures in a closed environment. Other ships can be a source of rumors and general chit–chat, or opponents in space combat. And of course an adventure can be set aboard a drifting derelict. Note that most of the traffic in a star system is concentrated around the starport and the mainworld, with ships running out to the safe 100–diameter limit and entering Jump to their next destination. In a busy system with a good port, this volume of space usually contains several ships and many small craft at any one time. These may include port utility craft, patrol vessels and commercial traffic using the port. Lower–quality ports do not see the same volume of traffic; local space may be empty for days or weeks on end over a Class D port. However, there is not usually much incentive to go elsewhere in the system. Many outsystem moons and planets are sufficiently far out that it would take days or even weeks to get there in normal space, and ships equipped with Jump drives can get somewhere more interesting in the time it takes to reach an outsystem location - a Jump takes a week even if it covers less than a single parsec.

Thus only vessels with business in the outsystem go there. Patrol craft and vessels serving the outsystem installations, if any exist, have a reason to be out there. Few other vessels do. Thus systems with extensive outsystem mining operations or colonies may have regular normal–space shipping lanes served by in–system freighters and protected by patrol craft.

Unless there is some obvious reason for being in the outsystem, a vessel's presence there is often seen as suspicious by patrol ships. It is always possible (though unlikely) to encounter an Imperial Navy vessel making a sweep of the outsystem region as part of a patrol deployment.

However, the distances between bodies in the outsystem (with the obvious exceptions being moons of the same gas giant and planetoids close together in the same belt) are such that an encounter is unlikely. Equally, a vessel that gets into difficulty in this remote region will be lucky if anyone is in range to effect a rescue. The outsystem is a lonely place.

Ships can find themselves in the outsystem as a result of a Misjump or a badly calculated Jump. The former can also deposit a ship into deep space, into the vast gulf between star systems. If the drive is still functioning and the ships has fuel for another Jump, this is a problem that can be overcome. However, most ships only carry fuel for one Jump. A vessel stranded in deep space without fuel is doomed, far more often than not.

It is possible to obtain fuel in deep space. A comet or rogue planet could be used as a source of ice, which is then cracked for hydrogen. However, the chances of coming out of Jump within range of such a body might as well be nil unless its coordinates were known ahead of time. Similarly, while deep space refuelling points have been used by the Navy and by explorers for centuries, if their location is not known they might as well not be there – it is almost inconceivably unlikely that a ship could accidentally stumble upon such a site.

### Hazards, Encounters and Opposition

The dangers a group of travellers may face can be subdivided into three general types – hazards, encounters and opposition. Hazards are impersonal threats such as those posed by the environment. Opposition means people actively trying to impede the group by various means. Encounters fall somewhere in between; depending on how the group handles the incident it may be dangerous, helpful, inconvenient or inconsequential.

The most obvious hazards are environmental. Characters can hurt themselves falling off or onto things. They can be burned or frozen, starved or drowned. Vacuum and toxic atmospheres can kill unprotected characters. Then there is radiation to consider and a whole range of biological and chemical hazards.

Most environmental dangers can be overcome by the use of good equipment and caution, but environmental details can be used to make the adventure experience richer. A gunfight is one thing. A gunfight inside an ATV which is sinking through melting ice on a toxic–atmosphere planet is significantly more interesting. Climbing a cliff is not usually a problem, but what about doing it in vacuum?

Whenever the characters are forced to use suits or breathing apparatus, the risk of suit damage adds an extra layer of suspense to an adventure, and the finite nature of air supply is a good 'clock' to keep the adventure moving. Conflict can be provoked by putting the characters in a position where they have almost, but not quite, enough life support equipment for everyone.

Other hazards can be used to endanger the group or to direct (or misdirect) them. A landslide or dust storm may not cause any casualties but it may cause the team to become lost. Or it could be combined with the air–clock idea to force the travellers to do something they otherwise might not. Since the landslide has blocked the easy path back to the ship, it will now take longer than the team has air remaining to get back, however up ahead is what appears to be a hatch in the ravine side...

Opposition can take the form of hordes of wild–eyed savages leaping out of the bushes at the travellers or animals that decide to turn hostile for whatever reason. However, opposition can be much more subtle than this. In a technological and civilised society, someone who wants to can cause severe trouble for an adventuring band by all kinds of non–physical means.

Characters can be impeded by nit–picky customs checks, law enforcement harassment, suspension of permits and licenses, or refusal to issue necessary documentation. These things can happen anyway, but an enemy who knows how to work the system can use it against the travellers to great effect.

This can be a useful plot device too, forcing characters to leave town ahead of the law after a false accusation or revelation of something they thought was buried and forgotten. A permit necessary to complete one goal may be offered in return for a different service, or criminal charges (trumped–up or entirely real) might be dropped in return for making some other problem quietly go away.

For shipowners with a cargo to deliver, delay can be devastating. The threat of a lawsuit or a similar reason why the characters' ship will have to stay in port until the matter is resolved can be a potent one as a commercial ship sitting on the ground is haemorrhaging money even if cargoes and passengers are not lost to vessels that are actually going to be taking off sometime soon.

Opposition of this sort is particularly frustrating as often the characters cannot get at the people responsible, even if they know who is behind the matter. Finding out and taking revenge or removing the obstacle can become a major character motivation, causing the players to generate plots on behalf of the Referee.

Legal and administrative opposition has one other advantage for the 'bad guys'; their dirty work is done by innocent cops, port workers and customs officials. If the characters take the direct approach and try to intimidate these people or simply shoot them, they will come into conflict with law enforcement, port authority security and maybe even the planetary army or the Imperial Marine Corps. Even if they survive the results, this creates new problems for the travellers with no effort needed on the part of their enemies. If the Travellers are on a Ministry of Justice 'most wanted' list and the Navy is searching for their ship, their task (whatever it is) becomes virtually impossible.

Dealing with this sort of opposition requires more than skills with weapons. The characters must tread carefully, collect information, and figure out how to thwart their enemy or at least get him off the case without running afoul of the legal system. Encounters are not always negative. The characters may see wildlife or interact with people without any problems occurring. Many encounters provide useful information or are at worst mildly irritating. However, much depends upon how the characters approach the situation. Some encounters can turn into natural hazards. For example, a stream is not normally much of a problem for an ATV, but if the characters recklessly charge into it at great speed (perhaps pursuing another vehicle or trying to escape from something) they may manage to crash their vehicle or find a deep bit and end up being swept downstream (ATVs are designed to float) towards a waterfall. Similarly most animals will not attack a human unless provoked, frightened or challenged. Characters who insist on shooting at the local wildlife may be recognised as a threat and attacked by some creatures or may attract predators to the sounds of their victims' distress. It is often possible to avoid conflict with animals or frighten them off with noise, fire or simply by waving one's arms about. Characters who are not paying attention may blunder into the lair of a concealed creature or find that they have managed to corner a savage predator without meaning to. A little bit of research at a handy data terminal can help avoid such problems, but characters who insist on crashing about in the backwoods with no regard to what they might find will sometimes run into trouble. The most likely encounters to turn nasty, however, are those involving people. Most of the folks encountered by the travellers will be fairly neutral towards them and will react to what they do or say. Most people will be wary of a band of armed strangers wandering around and trust takes time to build, but a little simple courtesy and respect for local customs can help a lot in avoiding trouble and obtaining cooperation. Characters sometimes forget this and upset the people they meet – often the only consequence of this is an increase in the locals' antipathy towards offworlders... but not always. The people met by the travellers should respond to what they do and say in a logical fashion. If the characters give offence and seem well armed or likely to turn violent, locals are more likely to disengage and call the cops or get their gun than engage in suicidal lone attacks. Most people will be unwilling to get involved in a fight - armed or otherwise – but may try to use intimidation. This could lead to escalation, of course, and as soon as the travellers start threatening locals with weapons, things are liable to turn nasty.

Traveller does not concern itself unduly with concepts like 'play balance'. Instead, the opposition that presents itself will be logical – though things will not always be exactly as the players suppose. This means that if the characters attack an isolated farm for some reason they are likely to be dealing with a bunch of surprised, frightened and untrained civilians armed with whatever is to hand; possibly a shotgun or rifle or two at best. However, the farm might be the retirement grant of an ex–Imperial Army corporal, who also retained his Advanced Combat Rifle.

A fair way to deal with this sort of thing, if it happens at random, is for the Referee to decide what the likely level of opposition would be and then secretly roll two dice. The dice give the answer to a question. In this case the question is 'how dangerous is this situation?'

A roll of near to 7 means that the situation is more or less as would be expected. Low is 'less' and high is 'more'. So on a result of 3 on this roll, the opposition is totally clueless and panics at the first sign of trouble. An 11, on the other hand, suggests that this is indeed the home of Corporal Deadly, ex–army trooper turned survivalist and his family, who he has armed and trained to deal with intruders. This should not be taken to silly extremes but it does provide a fair way to determine a suitable level of opposition.

If the players are not smart enough to figure out when they are out matched and to either find a way to win or else to disengage, they can take the consequences. Similarly, stupid actions will result in potentially fatal consequences. It may indeed be possible to get through customs by walking through with a live grenade held with the pin out, but the character doing this is not going to be allowed to get away with it.

Exactly what the response might be depends on the world's law and tech levels, and a range of other factors that can be abstracted by using the above dice throw method. There will be some sort of response though, and it will be logical, not play–balanced. This means that the first responders may well be a couple of ill–trained rookie cops with sidearms they barely know how to us, but if the travellers refuse to surrender to them, they will face an escalating response that may end up involving military forces. No world government will allow itself to be faced down by a bunch of adventurers.

This is an important facet of the Traveller setting – actions have consequences, and drawing weapons is not always a viable solution. This is a good thing for the game in many ways as it closes off some direct avenues and forces the players to think of alternative solutions rather than simply reaching for their guns.

Overall it is a good idea to mix different problems in an adventure: questions to be solved by logical deduction, some straight–out bad guys out to get the characters, shadowy figures throwing legal and administrative obstacles in the way, and a few natural hazards to fall off of, be crushed under or burned by. This keeps the characters guessing what is going to happen next and prevents them becoming too focused on a certain type of problem. Add to this the ability of many characters to make even a simple encounter go badly wrong, and the travellers will be up against a serious challenge.

## CURRENT EVENTS IN THE MARCHES

In a region of over 400 star systems, there is always something going on somewhere. However, the majority of these events, however life–altering they may be at the local level, are of no great consequence in the wider universe. For example, the efforts of the Tanoose Freedom League on Garda–Vilis in Vilis subsector are of extreme importance locally but are scarcely even known about on Lanth, a subsector away.

However, some events are of greater importance and may affect people all across the Marches. These events may serve as background to an adventure or the focus of one. Alternatively characters may find themselves on the periphery of great events, for example being hired to transport starship spares to repair a rival vessel sabotaged by McClellan Factors agents.

### Agitation, Dissent and Terrorism

Most worlds have at least one faction that is in dispute with the world government or with big business. Most of these groups are careful to proclaim their basic loyalty to the Imperium, though there are anti–Imperial groups of course. A certain amount of dissent is acceptable to the Imperium and different world governments have their own views about free speech, the right to protest and so forth.

The Imperium only becomes directly involved when local resources cannot handle the problem and the dissenting group threatens the security or best interests of the Imperium, or sometimes when a world facing internal problems requests help via its Imperial representative. This is not always granted; worlds are free to govern themselves and that includes failing to deal with dissent caused by their own ineffective policies. It is not in the interests of the Imperium to have world governments collapse, so some measure of support and assistance may well be offered.

Some threats are considered significant enough to require a broader response. Among these is the Ine Givar, a terrorist group of unknown size dedicated to wrecking the Imperium. This is a rather large goal, but the Ine Givar are prepared to fight a long battle if necessary.

Ine Givar methods vary, and they work through a variety of front organizations. Some of these are legal and act as support networks, gathering information and funds, and providing a cover for the active cells to use when moving around. Others are overtly anti–Imperial but take the guise of honorable 'freedom fighters' and 'resistance movements' rather than terrorists. This is a useful cover as there are many dissident groups and active rebellions that would never deal with terrorists but are willing to accept help from similarly inclined fellow revolutionaries. These fronts allow other groups to be manipulated into working towards the ends of the Ine Givar.

Accusations have been made that the Ine Givar is itself a front for the intelligence services of the Zhodani Consulate, though this has never been proven. What is known is that the organization is widespread, with cells on many worlds. These are well compartmentalised, with new members given no useful information until they have proven themselves.

While some of its front groups use only economic or irregular military tactics, that is they do not terrorise the population the Ine Givar as a whole is entirely willing to kill civilians. This is not indiscriminate; that would alienate the people that the organization hopes to win over. Instead the organization generally targets establishment figures and those who support the Imperium. The Ine Givar is willing to blow up a school bus if it contains the children of Imperial personnel, but always tries to spin its attacks as 'made necessary by illegal Imperial occupation of our world'.

The Ine Givar is dangerous because it is both local and widespread. That is, it has considerable resources and can reach areas thought to be safe. On the other hand, its personnel are local and in tune with the mood of the population. The organization always presents itself as fighting for freedom on behalf of the oppressed population, and this propaganda comes not from a distant source but from people who live and work in the same conditions. The grievances that the Ine Givar cites may be hugely overplayed but they do have their roots in reality.

Travellers can become involved in many ways. They may be at a frontier starport when Ine Givar terrorists take it over, fighting from the inside as local law enforcement stands around ineffectually outside. Or they may make useful contacts who put well–paid, semi–legitimate work their way (such as smuggling), only to later discover that they have been running guns to a terrorist cell... or that their contact has been exposed as an Ine Givar agent and the authorities are now looking for everyone he dealt with. Arden: A Rising Star? The Federation of Arden is something of a wild card in the affairs of the Spinward Marches. On the face of it, the concept is easy to dismiss. A single TL8 world, trying to forge an interstellar alliance, is hardly a threat to the stability of the region. Closer inspection reveals a rather more serious situation. Arden is working towards acquiring a small TL9 industrial base to allow the construction of Jump–capable vessels, but in the meantime starships can be obtained offworld. Much more important is the fact that Arden's position between the Imperium and the Zhodani Consulate could be of great significance in any future conflict. Jump– 4 is the standard for many navies' warships, and Zhodani jump–4 ships could refuel at Arden and be in the Denotam system before the Imperials knew they had left their bases in Querion subsector. While this scenario is not likely, it is a potential threat and the Imperium would prefer that the option to hit a naval base and cut the communications link to Vilis in a surprise attack were not available to the Consulate. Relations between Arden and the Consulate are watched closely. At present the Federation of Arden is a political alliance based on Arden rather than a formal polity made up of world governments. However, some local world governments are coming under the influence of Arden–based diplomats and businesses, and there is a steady creep towards the formation of a political entity. Travellers could become involved with Arden in various ways. The Federation always has a use for more starships and their crews, and might offer a subsidy to a vessel for nothing more than economic flag–showing. This would take the form of displaying allegiance to the Federation while conducting normal trading operations in the region. Ships might also be chartered on generous terms to carry out personnel transportation or freighting missions for the Federation. These would likely be quite legal, at least at first. Characters could also become involved in a Federation–backed coup attempt or an attack on Federation installations by local groups opposed to the increasing amount of control that Arden has over their affairs. Border Troubles The Marches contain the Imperial border with two potentially hostile states (not counting Arden). Wars have been fought with the Sword Worlds and the Zhodani Consulate in the past, and tensions are still present. Neither the Zhodani Consulate, the Sword Worlds Confederation nor the Third Imperium are stupid enough to want a war, nor to do anything that will deliberately cause one. However each will, in the pursuit of its interests, push the others somewhat and will engage in brinkmanship from time to time, working on the assumption that the other party does not want war either, and will grant small concessions rather than fight a big war. This cuts both ways (or all three ways; four if you count the Darrians) and can result in the border zones being very tense at times. Shipping is sometimes restricted and foreign vessels may be held in port during a crisis. This can also precipitate a situation, where a vessel is held for legitimate reasons such as contraband being found aboard, but the state where it is registered decides to make an issue of the matter because it does not want a precedent set whereby foreigners can interfere with the navigation rights of vessels. Of course, none of the regional powers is a monolithic organization, especially not the Sword Worlds. As a result there may be factions who actually do want a war, or who will pursue their own agenda without regard to the 'big picture'. Incidents are fairly common, creating a full–time job for diplomats and nobles as they try to keep the peace without giving away too much. This sometimes requires covert black–ops missions to deal with a situation that cannot be publicly acknowledged, let alone handled. There are also numerous 'haters' in the mix. One example is an ex–Imperial Navy officer who lost comrades to Zhodani action in the Fourth Frontier War and now leads a raider group striking across the border at the enemy. They are not pirates though, never that. They are simply carrying on the war that everybody else has forgotten about and funding it with the proceeds of their missions, because the politicians will not do a thing to help... People of this kind are sometimes regarded as heroes by others who live on the border and have reasons to resent old enemies. They tend to regard anyone who is not with them as an enemy sympathiser and are dangerous to the stability of the region. But the Imperium must tread carefully in dealing with these people because acting against them can be seen as acting for the 'enemy'. And there are those who think that such groups are covertly approved by the Imperial nobility since they cause damage to historical and potentially future enemies. It suits the purposes of foreign diplomats to say they believe this, too. Note that the Zhodani Consulate has far less 'haters' than the Imperium or the Sword Worlders. There are also significant tensions between the Darrians and the Sword Worlders, not least over the ownership of the Entropic Worlds. Matters are not helped by the huge cultural differences between the two states, which leads to considerable racial tension even when there is no specific reason for conflict. It seems likely that the Darrians will try to reclaim what they see as their worlds at some point. This could be a flashpoint for renewed war in the Marches, so the Imperium urges restraint. This in turn strains relations between the Darrian Confederation and the Imperium, though not hugely.

Travellers operating in the border region can run afoul of all kinds of trouble caused by incidents they have no control over or did not even know about, but there are opportunities too. 'Hater' groups need weapons and supplies, and will pay well for military–grade supplies. Meanwhile the authorities may want information on haters on their own side, and may offer a bounty for bringing down foreign ones so long as the whole business is officially deniable.

There are also numerous possibilities for adventure as a result of invasion scares, heightened border tensions, covert infiltration missions and other events short of all–out war. A major conflict between the Imperium and its neighbors would cause serious changes to the setting and would go on for some time, but a shooting incident on the border, with diplomats frantically trying to sort out what happened and avert war, could be the backdrop for some exciting adventures without causing long–term changes.

### Cold War in District 268

Trexalon and Collace have for many years now been involved in a cold war. This started out as a cooling of relations caused by differing attitudes towards the prospect of Imperial expansion into District 268, but has now reached the point of outright enmity. Both worlds routinely blacken the other's reputation with propaganda, yet officially claim that relations are cordial and that there is nothing more going on than a perfectly understandable difference in viewpoints.

In practice, there is a war going on in District 268. It is mainly fought in courtrooms and stock markets, by means of legal writs and economic gambits, but the occasional covert operation by black–ops units has occurred.

Both Collace and Trexalon have the same aim; to increase their own influence and reduce that of the opposition. Aid and assistance packages have been offered to surrounding worlds, while business efforts by firms aligned with the opposition are frequently derailed by the use of influence or less legal means.

Collace has the advantage of being friendly to the immensely powerful Imperium, but this also places restrictions on what Collace can get caught doing. Collace must be seen to play at least somewhat fair, or at a minimum to only do what is justified by Trexalon's actions. Many of Collace's long–term plans involve putting Trexalon in a position where her agents must do something that the Imperium will disapprove of, thus clearing the way for more direct action that is now seen as justified.

Trexalon, while somewhat freer to undertake whatever actions seem appropriate, must avoid triggering an Imperial response which it could not survive. Actions must be deniable or taken against third parties. Collace itself is sometimes a viable target and sometimes not, depending on the political situation in the Imperium.

Direct military action is out of the question, and probably pointless anyway. Even if Collace could somehow be taken out of the equation, some other pro–imperial world would emerge to take on the mantle of subsector–capital–in–waiting. The goal for Trexalon is to keep the Imperium out, not to get one over on Collace.

In addition to trying to sway political opinion and interfering in Collace business, Trexalon is rumored to be backing pirates. If this is true it is a very serious matter, and one that will trigger Imperial intervention if proven. However, at present there are simply some pointed fingers and persistent rumors. The theory is that Trexalon is diverting spare starship parts to a secret raider base or bases somewhere in the subsector, in return for an agreement that the raiders will hit pro–Imperial worlds and shipping bound for Collace.

Travellers could get caught in the middle of the District 268 cold war in several ways. They might be engaged to investigate the activities of one side or the other, or perhaps encounter pirates working in conjunction with Trexalon. Their ship might be stuck in port due to the machinations of one world, and freed to proceed by the other in return for a favor later on. There is no telling when an apparently independent contact might not turn out to be an agent of one side or the other, which in turn could lead to the characters having to find out why their friend has been murdered, abducted or suddenly wants nothing more to do with them.

### Expansion and Colonization

The large Imperial corporations are always seeking new markets or favorable places to put new facilities. This results in a steady creep outward from the Imperial core and other centres of Megacorporate power.

Corporations and Megacorporations sometimes move onto a world by taking over existing industrial or financial installations, or by building new ones at the existing cities. At other times they may set up an operation in a remote area of the mainworld or in the outsystem. This is more applicable to mining and heavy–industrial facilities than financial institutions, of course. These installations are often surrounded by a purpose–built town for employees.

Normally, a corporation that moves onto a world will pay taxes and other fees to the local government, which can make attracting Megacorporate investment in a new facility a very good thing for the local economy, especially on backwater worlds with little money to invest in their own economy.

However, this situation is not always to the liking of the local government or population. On many frontier worlds and outside the Imperium, the corporations play fast and loose with the rules. A
'world government' that actually rules only a few thousand people in a small corner of the planet can do little about a major corporation that sets up a mining base containing a town with hundreds of employees in it, on an entirely different continent. While illegal in the Imperium, outside the borders such rules do not apply.

New industrial and financial facilities need communications to serve them, and there is a gradual move towards investment in starports, especially on the Spinward Main where the volume of traffic is sufficient to make a good port a lucrative investment. Of course, better ports tend to be soon followed by larger ships operated by bigger companies, causing the smaller operators to move on to more marginal routes where they can still compete. This phenomenon has been referred to as 'corporation creep' and is a natural consequence of a developing economy in a given region. The Imperium as a whole benefits from such improvements in the economic situation, but it can be bad for local businesses and even the economies of whole worlds. The Imperium is also involved in a certain amount of colonization work, or at least, groups originating within the Imperium are currently undertaking expansion. Some of this is happening within the Imperium, either on reserve worlds or on low–population planets whose government has agreed (or been induced) to allow immigrants. There is also some colonization ongoing beyond the Imperium. This is potentially a ticklish situation, as treaties with the Zhodani Consulate ceded many worlds to the Zhodani area of influence, and officially condoning colonization of worlds in Querion subsector, for example, by imperial groups would be a violation of the treaties. In other areas there are no such restrictions in place, but colonization is still a potential source of conflict as the new arrivals come into conflict with the locals. The Colonial Office tries to keep control of such efforts or discourage them completely, but it cannot always be successful. Thus while colonization within the Imperium is fairly well regulated, operations beyond the border are more chaotic. Corporate colonization for commercial purposes is undertaken with careful planning and good support for the mission and many private missions are well enough supplied and funded to have a good chance at success. However, there are plenty of land–seekers who, whether through over–optimizm or lack of understanding of what is involved, are prepared to launch half–baked land grabs and hope for the best. Commercial expansion, whether colonial or economic in nature, can result in considerable resentment among the local population. Travellers might be dragged into a guerrilla war between corporate mercs defending an installation and locals who want it gone. Alternatively they might be hired to conduct an advance survey for a prospective installation. Perhaps the backing corporation does not want its rivals to know it is interested in the site. Ad–hoc colonial expansion spawns all manner of adventure possibilities. A failing colony might desperately need a shipment which rivals are trying to delay, or the travellers might actually be part of the colonial expedition. The early years of a new colony are a time of intense activity and there will always be work for resourceful and skilled individuals who can help fill the inevitable skills gap created when a small–scale operation takes on a huge task like the colonization of an entire world. Imperial Politics The politics of the Imperium are extremely complex, and even in a smaller region like the Marches there is plenty of internal tension and political manoeuvring going on at any given time. There are many noble houses, each with its own agenda. Some are in direct conflict or dispute with their rivals whilst others are affiliated to or own business interests which bring them into conflict with Megacorporations or world governments. As a rule, intrigue and industrial espionage are more common than large–scale violence in such disputes. On a grander scale, there is a high–level dispute ongoing in the Marches which can spill over into other affairs. The 'Mora–Regina Split' as it is known has to do with how the sector is governed and defended. Ironically, the 'Regina' faction, headed by Duke Norris of Regina, wants the fleet pulled back from the border and concentrated in a rear position near Mora, while the 'Mora' faction wants to keep most of the heavy units well forward in the border region, including the area around Regina.

The dispute is much deeper than whether a 'crust' or 'elastic' defence strategy is most appropriate, however. The Regina faction, which has supporters all over the sector and especially in less developed regions, maintains that resources, investment and military assets are all unfairly concentrated around Mora, while the Mora faction dismisses this as a pointless quibble. Mora and Trin are more developed than Regina and Jewell because that's how history happened, say the Mora–ites, and the provincials should spend more time on managing their investments better and less on moaning about a situation that developed as a consequence of simple economics.

The Regina faction seems determined to cause trouble, however. The latest issue is a campaign to persuade the Emperor to name a Sector Duke, and for it to be one of the provincials. Duke Norris has already requested the title, according to some sources. This has caused a deep rift in the Regina faction as other provincial nobles denounce Norris as an upstart and demand to know why they should not be considered for the role. Meanwhile Duchess Delphine of Mora has allegedly agreed to a suggestion by her supporters that she should perhaps make representations to the Emperor for a formal investiture in the position of Sector Duke, which she has held in all but name for many years.

The political wrangle can affect travellers in all kinds of ways. Political manoeuvring has wrecked several promising naval careers and caused a number of nobles to be greatly diminished in power and prestige. Many of these individuals now seek a means to climb back to prominence or at least get one over on their rivals. Characters might be caught up in the backlash from their schemes or play a part in them. Alternatively, the shifting political terrain might create opportunities for a big score or some kind of disaster for the travellers.

Mysteries, Enigmas and Rumors There are a number of large and small mysteries to be uncovered in the Marches, and rumors of great treasures still awaiting someone to come along and find them. Some are well–enough known that there are documentaries or action movies about them while others are rather less well known.

There are numerous things that bear investigating, from the murder of an apparently well–liked starport broker to embezzlement on Imperial Navy supply contracts. Scientific expeditions study everything from rogue asteroids to the wildlife of the worlds of the Marches. Safaris visit the same worlds to shoot or photograph these creatures. There are many mysteries in the Marches, and many answers just lead to more questions.

The biggest enigma in the Marches is of course the Ancients. There are plenty of theories about who they were, what they did and why they went away but hard evidence is almost as rare as certain facts. What is known is that they left behind a number of sites and artefacts, and that more turn up from time to time.

The Ancients possessed extremely high technology, and many adventurers dream of possessing an arsenal of Ancient gadgets while living off the proceeds of their find. In fact, most of what was left behind by the Ancients is little more than either rubble or junk. That anything has survived the millennia at all is remarkable – it is even more surprising that some of it still works.

Trading in Ancients artefacts is strictly limited by Imperial law, which requires that any site containing structures, items or other evidence of the Ancients be immediately reported. A fee of Cr50,000 is payable for finding any site as soon as it is verified, and once investigation begins the finder can expect additional fees, of much greater value, depending on what is discovered at the site.

Investigation of many Ancients sites is conducted in great secrecy under heavy guard by Imperial armed forces, though some sites are more open. Undergraduates and senior staff from some universities are routinely sent to investigate some of the less highly classified sites, though what they find tends to be somewhat mundane for the most part, and security is still tight. A few sites have been thoroughly investigated (perhaps without results) and are now open to the public as museums.

However, it is possible to find previously unknown Ancients sites. There are always rumors about them, though most turn up to be spurious, if not outright hoaxes. Even if a site can be found, it may be nothing more than the smashed remains of a small settlement, or a crater with some debris scattered around it. Intact installations are extremely rare.

Slightly more common are objects of various sort. Most could best be considered curiosities, in that figuring out how to use them or even what they are for is beyond the human intellect. Of course, some objects can be made to work (often intermittently, unreliably and to less than their maximum capabilities) but even then there may be no way to know without trying a device whether it is a doomsday bomb or the equivalent to an automated toenail clipper.

Despite this, the mystery of the Ancients continues to mesmerise people and to lure travellers from across the sector and beyond. A group that finds evidence that leads to an answer to some of the big questions about the Ancients could retire on the proceeds, and even lesser finds are likely to be very valuable. They may also lead to a world of trouble.

The other common mystery is the 'lost ship'. Some legends are well known, such as the loss of the INS Kinunir on an apparently routine cruise in 1088. Documentaries, video dramas and even a popular song have been made about this vessel, even though no hard evidence of her fate has ever been found.

Other famous losses include the Amuar, a Leviathan class merchant cruiser that went missing in the Outrim in 1102 and the Gyro Cadiz task force, a multiship supply convoy that failed to reach its destination in 984, during the Third Frontier War. One ship of the task force turned up wrecked by hostile action in a system well off the task force's route. The only clue to the fate of the remainder of the group was an epic poem written by one of the wrecked ship's crew, which spoke of shipwreck and a winter spent somewhere referred to as Twilight's Peak. The Gyro Cadiz' cargo was allegedly worth a fortune and has never been found. However, the most well–known rumor about starship losses concerns the Abyss Rift in Lanth and Vilis subsectors. Numerous vessels have been lost without trace in that region, and others have reported anomalous conditions, minor Misjumps and a number of other strange phenomena which, statistically, make the Abyss Rift one of the most dangerous regions of space to transit. Despite this, the legend of 'lost treasure ships of the Abyss Rift' draws bands of adventurers from time to time. Travellers can encounter mysteries by accident, stumbling on odd artefacts or strange places while engaged in some entirely different endeavor. At other times they may hear a rumor and decide to investigate. Most such rumors do not lead directly to treasure, of course. Following a totally false rumor can still lead a group to adventure and even some unexpected gain, and occasionally a rumor of this sort does actually lead (by a roundabout and difficult path) to something good. Travellers might also become involved in a mystery–related adventure in other ways. An event may strike the characters as odd or out of place (see notes earlier about a consistent game universe) and lead to investigation. Alternatively, the characters might be hired on as guards, guides or research assistants for an expedition investigating something. This could be dangerous, and may be fairly mundane or quite novel. Examples include a scientific expedition into the mouth of a semi–active volcano, a safari to photograph a supposedly extinct species that has been spotted or a search for the grave site of an ancestor on a frontier world. Mysteries do not need to be huge and universe–changing to be interesting. Trade War in the Rimward Subsectors McClellan Factors is the biggest non–Megacorporate Imperial player in District 268 and is also important in much of the Rimward end of the Marches. The business group also has interests just beyond the Marches, in Trojan Reaches subsector to Rimward. McClellan has been effective in edging out other Imperial business groups, not least as a result of its partnerships with local (non– Imperial) businesses. However, the Baraccai Technum, among other firms, is beginning to make some gains in the region. There is a great deal of corporate manoeuvring going on behind the scenes, along with some overt operations. Among these is an intention by the Baraccai Technum to conduct speculative trade missions outrim of the Marches, into territory that McClellan views as its own. This is an outright challenge and has resulted in a situation only a little short of an all–out trade war. Trade Wars are legal in the Imperium, within certain limits, and of course much of the conflict is taking place outside the Imperium. Overt attacks on shipping and installations are not an option, if only because this will cause retaliation in kind which, whether the trade war is won or lost, will result in heavy financial losses for both sides. That might be acceptable in a fight for survival, but it does not make good business sense and this conflict is about money–making opportunities. There are, however, plenty of other ways to conduct a trade–war campaign. Both sides are seeking to exploit the Trexalon/Collace situation and to stir up trouble for the other on various worlds. If a McClellan facility suffers a serious labour dispute, BT is probably responsible. Or at least, McClellan will assume so and look for a way to strike back. It is not known whether the boards of either business group would condone working with rebels or pirates, but it seems likely that there will be ambitious and amoral people somewhere within the management of each, who are willing to use whatever means necessary to win the trade war and further their own career into the bargain. In addition to economic measures like trying to tie customers into long–term deals that prevent them dealing with the opposition, both BT and McClellan are currently conducting an underhanded campaign of sabotage, troublemaking among the workforce and interruption of the supply/delivery chain. While blowing up starships and loading docks may be the most efficient way of doing this, it is not really an option although there have been a number of suspicious accidents.

Instead the method used is to strike at various points, none of which is very serious but which ultimately reduce the ability of the competition to bring goods to market. Thus a time–critical delivery of components may be hijacked, key workers hired away, loading equipment sabotaged and the contracted delivery starship detained in port a parsec away for three weeks fighting off a spurious legal challenge.

Although these measures will not kill the opposition's operation in a given market sector, it will disrupt it and reduce consumer confidence, hopefully creating an opportunity for a competitor to steal a chunk of the marketplace.

Travellers can become involved in this dispute in many ways. They may be hired to sneak into company offices and steal information or plans that will enable a later strike to be made, or become involved in a supply–truck hijacking. BT or McClellan might want a group of adventurers to investigate or deliver something without the opposition realising they are connected with the trade war. The same group might be approached by the opposition and asked to do the same thing. They may even be hired to intercept a covert delivery being made by an adventurer group... which turns out to be themselves.

This situation could become very complex, with the group at the center of a web of deceit. They may be able to play off one faction against the other, or may end up being squashed in the middle.

### Vargr, Aslan and Droyne

Most Vargr within the Marches are Imperial citizens and are involved in all the same sort of activities as other Imperial people. However, there are groups within the Marches dedicated to various causes, most notably the advancement of their affiliated states 'back home' in the Vargr Extents.

Most of these groups are fairly harmless, being concerned with making a profit from cross–border trade (which includes smuggling in some cases) or furthering various political agendas in a non– violent way. There are some downright nasty groups active, mainly in the Coreward–Trailing corner of the sector. These include piracy rings and freeport operators that cater to pirates, rebels and smugglers. Some are independent, some associated with Vargr political groups and some are part of bands like the Kforuzeng, one of the largest pirate organizations in the Extents.

Partly as a result of this, and partly because Vargr states from the Extents formed part of the Outworld Coalition during the Frontier Wars, many imperial citizens can be suspicious of Vargr in general. This leads to problems for the millions of Vargr citizens who dwell in the Marches leading perfectly innocent lives. Ironically, the further away from the border a world lies, the less prevalent this attitude is – the problem is not really racial but stems from the activities of criminal groups who happen to be Vargr.

The vast majority of Vargr in the Imperium are as loyal as anyone else and have nothing to do with corsairs, smugglers and assorted bad sorts described above. It should be noted, however, that few Vargr find 'doggy' jokes funny, and racist humor of this sort is frowned on in most places. This does not stop racist Vargr making 'monkey' references when talking to humans. However, for the most part Vargr and humans get along and recognise one another as people first and foremost, with species coming a long way second.

There are some populations of Aslan within the Marches. Some are citizens of non–Aslan worlds, having settled there and been integrated into the local culture. The Darrian Confederation has a sizable minority of Aslan absorbed in this way. Other worlds have small enclaves of 'unofficial colonists' where ihatei groups have landed in a remote location and claimed it for their own. Dislodging them can cause problems with their clan, so many world governments just let them stay or even offer to recognise their claim to the land in return for military service.

Aslan mercenary units are not common but are well respected for their prowess and élan in combat. Individual Aslan and small groups are often encountered on business or working a job like anyone else, though there are strict limits on what sort of jobs male and female Aslan will take.

There is no large–scale Aslan agenda in the Marches, some clans trade in Imperial Space and some individuals work there. Each, and every group of settlers where they exist, has its own agenda and will pursue it in whatever way seems appropriate.

Similar comments apply to Droyne. They can be encountered anywhere, though they are not common. It seems that the blockade of Andor and Candory is not there to keep the Droyne in but to prevent unauthorized Imperials from going to their worlds.

Droyne ships and even small enclaves can be encountered from time to time, mostly conducting trade and other mundane activities, but sometimes their actions are utterly incomprehensible. Other than the Imperial observers around Andor and Candory, no–one knows what is happening on those worlds and those that can see cannot, in most cases, make sense of it. If there is an over–arching Droyne agenda in the Marches nobody is aware of it.

Travellers will interact with Vargr, Aslan and Droyne just like any other people they encounter. Any given group will have its own goals, and these may intersect those of the players in various ways. However, there is no single story associated with these groups; they will be part of adventures, perhaps even the reason for them, just like anyone else the characters may meet.

## ADVENTURE AND CAMPAIGN TYPES

Virtually anything can happen in a Traveller game. However, there are certain styles of gaming that tend to lead to slightly different experiences. It is important to pick one that will not alienate some of the players, by forcing them into a style of play that does not suit them.

### Free Trader/Independent Starship

Perhaps the classic Spinward Marches campaign has the players as the crew of, or otherwise associated with, a free trader or similar small starship. This might be an actual merchant vessel or it could be a Scout/courier, a yacht or a safari ship. The basic concept is that starships cost money to run and the group will need to engage in trading or take jobs in order to be able to afford fuel and spares.

There is no need for a rigid command structure in this sort of game. The ship must, under interstellar law, have a master (captain) and obviously the owner of the ship gets to decide where it goes and what it does. Things will normally tend to be quite informal on small ships of this kind.

Some characters will fulfil important crew positions such as engineers or pilots but others might be aboard for different reasons. Strong, tough guys may double as cargo handlers, streetwise characters can help find cargo or 'scrounge' spare parts when they are needed. Everyone can contribute in some way to keeping the ship flying.

It is not always possible to make a profit by carrying freight or engaging in speculative trading, so sometimes the crew will have to take other jobs. They may also become involved in adventuring situations for other reasons: following rumors in the hope of making a big score, being coerced into a job in return for necessary parts for the ship, responding to a distress call or investigating something unusual that just popped up on the sensors.

A game of this kind offers a great deal of freedom to the players and lets them carry around with them more or less anyone and anything they choose. This may or may not be desirable, as it allows the characters to avoid some situations by simply flying away. The players may suddenly decide to head off across the sector (or even out of it), which can cause a major problem in terms of Referee preparation for a game.

One alternative is to provide a ship with strings attached. In return for a subsidy that makes their ship a viable commercial proposition, the characters may have to carry out missions on behalf of their patron. This restricts the players to a smaller area and allows the Referee to introduce adventures, while leaving the characters free to do as they please the rest of the time.

A variant on this theme might be to impose conditions on an ex– Scout character's ownership of a scout ship. Again, most of the time the crew are free to do as they wish but the Scout Service will require either the fulfilment of tasks from time to time or the return of the ship.

### Military/Naval

A military or naval–based game is far more structured. For one thing the characters would be in a chain of command and expected to obey orders. This can be a problem for some groups with very independent–minded players, or when the senior–ranked character is played by someone who does not want to lead – or who wants to but cannot do it very well.

A well–run game can be very entertaining, as a rule most players find it more interesting to play aboard a starship than in an army unit and using fairly small ships are usually best. Tooling around the sector in a heavy cruiser, sending the marines in to deal with problems rather than getting in amongst it, is not to everyone's taste.

Naval games of this sort often involve a lot of politics and difficult decisions rather than action. This is especially true of large–ship adventures. If the heavy cruisers of the sector fleet are firing their guns in anger then something serious is going on, but smaller patrol vessels can have a fairly active time of it fighting pirates and the like without the need for a major war to justify a combat.

Frontier deployments work best for this kind of game – following the battlefleet around a base system is hardly the stuff of heroic adventuring. Alternatively if there is something unusual or special about the ship, this would place it outside the mainstream naval experience. Possible candidates include a ship belonging to naval intelligence, a prototype vessel undergoing testing, or a ship used to dump misfit or no–hoper officers and given a range of odd jobs to keep them out of trouble. The converse of the latter is also a possibility – the sector admiral's elite trouble–shooter squad, handling the dirty jobs that the rest of the Navy can not be trusted with. Such a vessel might even carry oddball characters who do not fit in the chain of command but prove useful from time to time.

A 'Scout Cruiser' game could also run in this manner. The advantage there is that Scout Service ships tend to be run on a much more informal basis than naval ones, and may well have civilian experts aboard as part of the mission. Scout ships tend also to be much more free to wander about and have adventures than naval vessels with a patrol schedule to meet.

The adventures of a naval ship that has been damaged in combat and made a huge Misjump could be the basis of a long–running game as the vessel tries to get home, but this would probably take it outside the Marches... unless it was a Zhodani or Sword Worlder ship trying to sneak home.

### Mercenary

Distinct from a military game, a mercenary campaign follows the adventures of a band of guns–for–hire. This may be a well trained, organised military unit of anything from squad to divisional size, or it could be a small team of experts, not all of whom are soldiers.

The mercenary game is another classic Traveller campaign, and one to which the Marches is ideally suited as a setting. As a frontier there are plenty of problems that require the attentions of military personnel. Some may be deniable, such as a dubious operation that the Imperial administration does not want to be connected with, some open and overt.

Not all mercenary games revolve around combat, though obviously this is a likely facet of mercenary operations. Mercs are often put into ambiguous situations where they must make decisions to which there might be no right answers. What seems like a simple assignment can suddenly make sharp left turn into something entirety different, such as when the team goes in to remove a group of illegal colonists and finds them all dead but for one insane survivor who keeps babbling about monsters...

Other possibilities include a merc unit that is sent out on a radio– silence mission just before a ceasefire is declared, resulting in them hitting what is no longer a military target. Or perhaps the strike goes well but the extraction is bungled, leaving the mercs stuck in hostile territory. A merc force guarding a corrupt government from an uprising by desperate peasants might have some serious moral questions to deal with. The occasional straight fight is also good.

As with military games, large units are not really suited to adventure gaming. It is better to base the game around small force or a detachment, such as a military police, intelligence or commando squad that deals with the things that the mainstream mercs cannot - or cleans up their mess.

### Noble/Diplomatic

Player–character nobles can be accommodated in almost any sort of Traveller game, but adventures dealing specifically with the nobility are a different proposition. This sort of game is not to everyone's taste as it tends to involve a lot of intrigue and 'talking adventures'. Opportunities for direct action are not always present and the need to follow etiquette can be rather frustrating for some players. The other problem is that unless every player has a noble character, there will be a 'chain of command' issue much like that encountered in naval or military games.

The adventuring party in a noble–based game will normally center on a noble (obviously) but will also include his or her close retinue. These people will be friends or experts such as scientists, bodyguards and the like. While they may not have the same social advantages as the party leader, they should have plenty of opportunities to use their unique skills.

However, being a noble is not all about intrigue at court. Nobles are often given difficult tasks to carry out. Sometimes but not always, they are also assigned resources to use. The rest of the time they must simply cope. Whether simply 'on their travels' or assigned to a particular job, a noble and his or her retinue can end up confronting a wide range of situations. A noble campaign can thus range from investigating allegations of corruption at the ducal court on Mora, which mostly involves talking to people and piecing together a picture from clues, to being caught in a disaster zone and having to cobble together a plan to save lives or leading an impromptu assault on a pirate stronghold to rescue hostages before the corsairs can make good their escape. Freelance The other classic Traveller campaign is the 'team of freelance experts' game. This differs from a Free Trader game in that the team does not need to concern itself with making enough money to keep a ship flying. This may suit players who do not like keeping track of the ship's accounts. This does not mean that the team will not have a vessel. They may, and it could be anything from a noble's yacht to a laboratory ship. The humble scout/courier is also a good choice. If a ship is involved, then some of the Free Trader comments apply, however – the ship may provide too much freedom to suit the game needs, or it might enable the characters to move around and follow the storyline. In either case, a team of this sort will normally contain a range of characters. Travellers tend to have a range of skills and to be able to function in most situations, albeit not well in many cases. The expert skills of the team will dictate what approaches are likely to be most effective. Those with good streetwise and diplomatic skills might be able to circumvent problems a combat–heavy team chooses to steamroller. There is, in the final analysis, no one way to succeed in a good Traveller adventure. A team that plays to its strengths will ultimately be successful. The 'Freelance' style of game can take characters anywhere in the Marches. They might spend time on the frontier surveying prospective colonies, search for lost starships further into the Imperium and end up at the sector capital involved in a complex web of intrigue before heading out to a backwater world to help a band of farmers raise a militia to repel a Megacorporate attempt to take over their world.

## FINAL NOTES

In preparing this manuscript, I used a copy of Supplement 3: The Spinward Marches that I have had since 1983 or so. There are two extra worlds on my map, pencilled in during my teenage years. Both are in the rifts in District 268.

One of these worlds was dropped in there because I wanted to use a magazine scenario and at the time I was not bright enough to do more than transplant it wholesale. The other is borrowed from a novel I am particularly fond of. If you want a clue it is a low–tech world with a small base set up by ships out of the Sword Worlds. If you know which world, and which book, that might tell you a lot about my take on Traveller.

These days I ignore those entries. They are not in the Official Traveller Universe (OTU) and they are not even in My Traveller Universe (MTU) any more. But there was a time when I wanted those worlds at those locations, so I put them in.

And that is okay. The Official Traveller Universe version of the Spinward Marches is a baseline for your own take on the setting (YTU- Your Traveller Universe). It is the common starting point we all use. But the minute you play a game, the instant you decide to use your own take on what a given world looks like, it becomes YTU. Only game designers need to care about keeping the OTU right, and then only in official products. Everyone else is free to do whatever they like with it, including game designers playing around with different concepts.

Is this a good time to mention that I ran a one–off a little while back where the Darrians blew up Biter's sun with the Star Trigger? It was the reason WHY that made it interesting...

Nobody has the right to tell you what's right or wrong for your own Traveller setting. You want a black hole in the Abyss Rift? No problem. There is not one in the OTU and my physics degree is squealing in protest, but it is YTU. You want a wormhole from the Marches to the Solomani Rim? Why not? Blow up a couple of stars with the Star Trigger? Knock yourself out. Add a few extra worlds or move them around? Feel free. Heck, you can dress the Imperial Navy in pink and orange stripes if you like.

You see, this is just a baseline you have in your hands. It is a starting point, and not a bad one in the opinion of the author. But that is all it is. Where it gets good is when you take this information and use it. Except for the bits you change or ignore completely, that is.

Our future products have to follow this baseline for the Marches and be consistent with it – but your games do not. There is no right or wrong way to play a Traveller game in the Marches, there is just the OTU, MTU and the one that counts; YTU.

We are done here; it is time to take the Marches and make them yours.
