### BOWMAN

Bowman's asteroid belt presents something of a classification problem, simply because it is so huge.  The Bowman Belt does not just fill the usual one orbital path that most belts do, but several. There are separate zones within the belt and there has been some debate as to whether these are actually several separate belts, in which case Bowman has an asteroid belt and several planetoid belts, or whether it is all one asteroid belt.

To the people who live and work here, the point is moot. There is one belt and they live and work in one part of it. Distant regions of the belt are of no real importance because they are very far away.

In addition to the system's star and the vast Bowman Belt there is one planet, a gas giant named Bowman Prime and its gaggle of moons. Clusters of planetoids are found at Bowman Prime's Trojan points (ahead of and behind it in orbit).

The Bowman system is unusual in other ways.  Normally, the starport is located on the mainworld but Bowman's port is actually on Alpha, the innermost moon of Bowman Prime, along with a scout base. This is a very small installation that operates a few ships on missions in local systems, as well as Bowman itself.  These are often of the 'rock plotting' sort, necessary for the maintenance of accurate charts but boring and unglamorous.

The population, numbering around 8,500, refer to themselves as Belters. There is no governmental structure in the Bowman Belt, nor any real body of law. The Belters live in small communities or family groups and are scattered widely. The main population concentrations, such as they are, can be found at the town of Garrison, which has grown up around the starport, and on some of the larger asteroids. The most important of these is Koenig's Rock, in the main belt.

In addition to the Belter population, there are about 3,000 'company men' in the system at any one time, not residents or Belters but well-paid employees of Ling Standard Products. LSP has more or less taken over the Trailing Trojan cluster of asteroids and runs off independents with armed cutters and mercenary security troopers. There is an LSP company town in the cluster, from which mining platforms are sent out to nearby asteroids to extract whatever minerals can be found there. Ingots of ore are then launched by mass driver to the two LSP stations near Garrison.

These two stations are owned and operated by LSP but required by contract to process ore extracted by the Belter population too. They orbit Bowman Prime at the Trojan points of Alpha, from where it is easy to transport the processed ore to the port for shipment out of the system.

A third station orbits the outer edge of Bowman Prime's ring system but does not mine for ore. Instead, it extracts a range of chemicals, as well as oxygen and hydrogen, from ice chunks collected from Bowman Prime's extensive ring system.

There are two other operations taking place in the Bowman system. The first is a small archaeological dig underway on Epsilon, one of Bowman Prime's larger moons, discovered in 1093 to be the site of a pre- Maghiz Darrian outpost. Meanwhile, salvage crews continue to pick over the extensive field of starship wreckage drifting among the asteroids of Bowman Prime's leading Trojan cluster. This dates from the period just after the Second Frontier War, when a Sword World fleet that had refused to surrender, and carried out a highly successful commerce-raiding campaign, was finally tracked to its base in the cluster and eliminated. The exploits of this fleet, under Admiral Denisov, form part of Sword Worlder naval tradition to this day.