### TALOS
Lying just outside the Imperial border, but on the District 268 arm of the Spinward Main, Talos is a chilly world with too little atmosphere for humans to breathe unaided. Its surface is mostly cold desert or rocky badlands, with little life outside the sealed environment of the world's settlements. There is one large city, containing most of the 800,000 or so population, plus a few outlying towns. Most of these are specialist installations; typically industrial towns or agricultural areas surrounded by large expanses of pressure-controlled farmland.

Talos reached a comfortable TL9 many years ago and has seen little progress since. The hereditary noble class that runs the world sees little point in diverting funds from its own lavish lifestyles to investment that might someday result in an improved industrial output or more advanced technology; the present situation is good enough to support the nobility in style and to keep the population reasonably content, and there is no perceived need to change anything.

Talos' starport is extremely basic and receives little traffic – most ships turn around at Mertractor or Collace depending on their origins, with just a few making regular cross-border runs. However, there are rumors that the nobility have arrangements with a few favored merchant captains, enabling them to get people and items across the Imperial border for those willing to pay the steep fee. This service, if it exists at all, is reserved for those favored by the nobility. According to rumor, playing politics or winning over some of the nobles can open doors for those who know how to fit into Talos'
isolationist society.