### QEVAR

Qevar is classified as a charismatic dictatorship by the Imperial Interstellar Scout Service, which is one way of interpreting its society. Others use terms like 'weird mystical police state' or 'cult headquarters'.

Some of this weirdness reaches the starport but is countered by a strong interstellar business community that will not tolerate interference with the operations of a major port, which could affect trade across the subsector and far beyond. The Imperial authorities do not, as a rule, interfere in the affairs of member worlds and are willing to let the Qevarians do as they please on-planet so long as there is no interference with free trade.  A commission from the Imperial Ministry of Justice and the Bureaucracy is maintained at the port, observing the affairs of the planetary population in case Imperial High Laws are infringed, although local society seems to be strange but not illegal.

The government of Qevar comprises officials appointed by the leader of the world's religious sect, which believes that every living thing is connected and enforces a strictly vegetarian diet for everyone on-planet – indigenous population and offworlders alike. Most of the world's many laws are based around respect for others, free speech and protection of the environment. In principle, these are positive concepts, but taken to such extremes that society manages to be oppressively respectful, with free speech encouraged but many of the things someone might say punishable as offences against the arrangements, as the cult's core beliefs are called.

The cult's members are taught to eschew material possessions and contribute wholeheartedly to whatever group they are part of. Group marriages are not uncommon, although there is no official policy on the subject. Other groupings are social, economic or artistic in nature. Qevarian society is highly complex as a result, with a shifting pattern of subgroupings as people move from one group to another – apparently freely.

Similarly, members are free to leave the cult, although membership is mandatory for citizenship of Qevar. A small community of ex-members live at the highport but most drift across the sector. Few have much that is bad to say about their time on Qevar; although oppressive to the outside eye, the cult's way of life makes sense to its members and most feel more sadness than resentment after they leave. However, there are always suspicions that the inner leadership may be less wholesome than their beneficent public image indicates.