# Lorin Atune

The _Lorin Antune_ system was named in honor of a wrecked freighter, presumed to have suffered a major misjump, found in 120. The ship had been in the system since -30 and the crew were dead. They appear to have survived for many years – the captain's last journal entry was in 110, just a decade before Imperial scouts arrived in the system.

The crew of the _Antune_ managed to land their crippled ship – more or less – and found themselves among a low-tech human society subdivided into many warring states. The knowledge of the crew and some of their cargo were sufficient to allow one of the states to break out of the cycle of success then betrayal by its allies and achieve a measure of stability. Over time this resulted in a reduction in conflict and technological progress to TL7. The world is still balkanised but does not experience anything like the degree of warfare it previously suffered. However, wars tend to be more destructive as they are now fought with higher-technology weaponry.

There is a popular legend that Lorin Antune was the secret last refuge of the [[Humbolt family]] and that they remain powerful there, sending out agents to advance plans across the sector. Such claims are embroidered with tales of hidden shipyards building vast super-dreadnoughts and other incredible devices. This seems rather unlikely; if [[Vincennes]] itself could not build these weapons then a fleeing remnant of its ruling class would be unable to secretly build an even more advanced technological base. Besides, no sign has ever been found of [[Humbolt family|Humbolt]] influence on Lorin Antune.
