
A popular destination for Travellers who enjoy roughing it in the great outdoors, Gakxaal is stitched with an unusual number of tall mountain ranges. The world has been largely overlooked because of its high degree of tectonic activity and pervasive species of fungoids, viruses and bacterial masses. Evolution on the planet never managed to produce complex animal species but microbial life runs rampant in its oceans, seas and low-lying valleys. However, little of its native life may be found at an elevation of more than 1,000 meters. The planet has a dense, high-pressure atmosphere with significant carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide taints spewed from its dozens of active volcanos.

Gakxaal is off the beaten path and poses a challenging environment for long-term settlement.  The starport is rudimentary, little more than terraces and pueblo-like structures carved out of limestone. The landing pads are too small and unstable to dock a starship but many can support small craft and gravitic vehicles. A tourist service in the planet’s northern hemisphere offers transportation via airship between some of its more popular mountain ranges. Trained guides and mountaineers are available to show intrepid Travellers the many wonders of the planet. One of its more popular attractions is the Glass Valley, a canyon system with billions of loose olivine and pyroxene stones that have been cleansed of dust and regolith by various bacterial species. The canyons glisten with the green and purple hues of the stones and cast a hypnotic prismatic effect when Gakxaal’s star shines directly upon them.
