During the Long Night, Shazeku was governed by a pantheist religion known as the Bamshimbakkada. The priesthood remained in power for thousands of years until it was toppled by a revolution afew decades after being integrated into the  Imperium. The remains of the Bamshimbakkada are everywhere. Immense temples, state buildings, monuments and other public works have been preserved and converted for use by the modern, high-tech society. Others have been made into museums and historical sites for tourists.

There were 14 deities in the Bamshimbakkada pantheon, each of whom were represented by a planet or star in the Shazeku system. Shazeku's two red dwarf stars, Aadii and Kuusi, are approximately one light year apart and each orbited by six planets. The Bamshimbakkadans believed that the worlds of Aadii, including Shazeku itself, represented various aspects of goodness and virtue. Conversely, the worlds of Kuusi represented vice, the underworld and other evils. While the populations of the worlds orbiting Kuusi all died out during the Long Night, they have since been repopulated. To this day the Shazekuans are superstitious about Kuusi and generally avoid engaging in trade, diplomacy or other exchanges with its worlds in spite of the fact that they debunked the Bamshimbakk[[Adan]] religion over 1,000 years ago.

The Imperial Navy Base on Shazeku is an important one. The world is host to several small craft construction yards that manufacture fighters, armed pinnaces and modular cutters for the navy. Shazeku's solitary moon is a test site for new prototypes where some of the sector's top test pilots put these spacecraft through their paces before they are sold to the Imperial Navy and various planetary navies. Naval architects have recently been seen at the 'Black Cube', a highly secure research installation where the navy is said to be working with sector-wide corporation Hodan-Barley on a new breed of starfighter.
