---
date created: 2024-08-25 16:58
date updated: 2024-08-25 17:03
tags:
  - RB-C_and_C
---

# The Jaice Group

The Jaice group’s public face takes the form of a chain of offices on mid-range starports that do not have particularly strict business laws. Jaice presents itself as a diversified manufacturing and services business group, which is sort of true. It might more accurately be described as a legitimate-seeming front for a variety of semi-legal and outright criminal activities including starship re-registry, salvage and the procurement of
‘items of limited availability’. Most people translate this to Jaice being a front for pirates, smugglers and gun- runners, which is reasonably accurate.

Jaice treads a fine line between overt respectability and murderous rapacity. It presents itself as a legitimate business group which openly skirts the outer edges of the law because that is where the biggest profits are to be made. It aggressively protects its ‘good name’ through legal channels and also by less-than subtle intimidation. Jaice prefers to shut up its critics using legal writs, but if this does not work the next stage is to give them a sound economic reason to change their attitude. It is well known that the Jaice Group plays hardball in the economic marketplace and will bury competitors if it can. Since it is well-connected and rich, this is a credible threat which can be carried out in a completely legal (but perhaps immoral) manner. Often the rumours that Jaice can send saboteurs or pirates against those that it is in conflict with is enough to deter its opponents.

This image of an aggressive but basically legal corporation is more accurate than many suppose. Jaice does, of course, engage in a great deal of legitimate commercial activity, but carries out its dealings in a hard-nosed and at times downright nasty manner. The firm’s subsidiaries do have dealings with pirates and smugglers, but the group as a whole maintains just enough distance to avoid trouble from the authorities - at least most of the time. Jaice’s experts long ago concluded that the occasionally burned finger would be less significant than the money to be made by sailing very close to the wind. Thus its salvage yards sometimes process pirated ships or components, and if they get caught then a few executives will go to jail but the business group will be able to ride out the storm easily enough.

The Jaice Group works through intermediaries and cut- outs, enabling it to make a big profit repairing pirate vessels and laundering cargoes, components and of course money for the pirate gangs yet avoiding being implicated if they are caught. This would not work on a lot of worlds, where the laws are tight and enforcement is honest, but the Jaice Group does not have facilities on worlds like that. It favours corrupt governments and loose laws, and has a whole political arm designed to ensure they stay that way.

The Jaice Group actually promotes law and order, since chaos and lawlessness are bad for business and Jaice both engages in legitimate business and makes money off those who prey on the trade ships. Too much disruption of trade would be bad for the group’s bottom line, so Jaice perversely acts as a moderating influence. If things get too safe and legal, or too wild and lawless, the firm would lose out badly. So its considerable influence is used to maintain an environment in which piracy and smuggling are possible and profitable, but not too damaging to interstellar commerce as a whole.

Outsiders working with the Jaice Group are usually given some entirely legitimate task – the bulk of the firm’s income does come from legal if unnecessarily harsh commercial activity – and if they seem amenable might gradually be offered shadier work. However, one of the tricks the group uses to protect itself is to send disposable assets (such as Free Trader crews) off to do tasks that look illicit and are likely to trigger an intervention. When the case finally gets hauled though the courts, it will be established that nothing illegal was going on. By this means the Jaice Group attempts to build an image of a hard-nosed firm vilified by its rivals and political opponents for their own purposes. The policy has worked well enough to date that Jaice has never been successfully implicated in major wrongdoing, even when one of its repair yards was caught buying components from known pirates.
