### ANSIRK

Ansirk is an all-but-uninhabited rockball, with a tiny population in a single outpost maintained for territorial-claim reasons. Ansirk is a fragment of a much larger planet, which appears to have fragmented for unknown reasons. It follows an eccentric orbit well inside the primary's habitable zone, resulting in harsh surface conditions. The worldlet has no atmosphere or surface water although some ice pockets have been located, claimed as critical assets by the starport authority for life support and fuel use.

Normally a rockball of this sort would not be worth colonising but a small community does live and work there. So long as Ansirk has a 'native' population, it cannot be claimed by any of the region's ambitious world governments or noble houses. Without indigenous people, the world would be up for grabs, which would in turn create legal issues regarding ownership of the starport. The existence of this population is something of a legal fiction, as few of its people were actually born on Ansirk. However, everyone has citizenship of the world even if they are essentially professional residents who will eventually move on to somewhere more welcoming.

Ansirk is rugged and nonregular like a planetoid but the size of a small planet and in a few million years Ansirk's own gravitational forces will conform it into a rough sphere. It was chosen as the location for the starport partly due to its rich and varied veins of useful metals and radioactives, exposed on the world's new surface and granting easy access. However, exploitation has not yet begun despite a series of plans put forward by various corporations and governments. Each one has stalled at the negotiation stage, usually over disagreements about profit-sharing and taxation.

A larger fragment of the original world (size 5) lies on the other edge of the habitable zone; it has an insidious atmosphere, is not habitable and interdicted by the IISS. The occasional scientific expedition has been given permission to visit and study the fragment but no conclusions have been published about what happened to the original world.

Ansirk Starport is far more important than the world it orbits, as it serves x-boat routes as well as local trade routes. It is very rare for vessels to visit the world's small and basic landing area, except to resupply the outpost. Most ships dock at the orbital facility, moving on without going planetside. Although highly automated, the port has a population of several thousand workers, not considered citizens of Ansirk itself but encouraged to apply for citizenship and automatically accepted if they do. The majority are simply employees or business owners who work at Ansirk Starport but call some other world home.

The starport could, in theory, build starships but typically it does not. Instead, its modest yards turn out small craft and fighters for a variety of clients, with a training staff maintained to certify pilots and crew.
Most designs are standard but recently Ansirk Starport has begun recruiting test pilots for an experimental fighter program.