### BORLUND

Lying close to the Imperial border, Borlund is the homeworld of the [[Lurent]], a minor race found all over the sector and beyond. With a population of over 70 billion, Borlund would be important to the economy of the sector even without the mercantile activities of its people.

Borlund does not have a main starport as such. Instead it has hundreds – possibly thousands – of landing areas all over its surface, each serving a local community.  The Lurent are famous for their planetoid starships and at any time dozens can be found in orbit over Borlund.  From these, interface craft and small trading vessels transit planetside to conduct trade. A given ship might remain in-system for days or months. Some seem to be more or less permanent, essentially powered artificial moons, whilst others are gone for decades at a time on long trading voyages.

Borlund is prone to extensive volcanism which has resulted in spectacular natural features. These include a sea kept at boiling temperatures by active volcanic vents and a mountain range whose peaks extend beyond the atmosphere. Its thin atmosphere is human-breathable due to chemical reactions in most of the native plant life, which aggressively seeks and incorporates elements toxic to many lifeforms, including humans. The concentration of these chemicals means that most plant and animal life is toxic to offworld species, including humans.

Borlund has numerous bodies of water, some of which appear to be craters caused by ancient meteor strikes.  Its single true ocean is surrounded on three sides by volcanic-ridged land masses, with near-vertical walls of burnt rock rising out of the water. The fourth side starts as a black sand beach gradually giving way to low plains covered in springy ground cover. The plains end in a deep rift valley, the result of a 4,000-year-old earthquake. On the other side of the rift is a high plateau, where plains were gradually lifted up 100 kilometers over the last 200 million years. Here, the ground cover is spongy rather than springy.

Plant life on cliffs and ridges evolved to compete for sunlight by clinging to near-vertical surfaces and growing outward in wide, flat shelves. Complicated root structures use enzyme catalysts to bore slowly into the rock to anchor the plants, leaching chemicals directly from metabolised stone. New plants may require centuries to root. Once established, plants grow outward at an astonishing rate.

The Lurent of Borlund evolved in a milieu of competition for high ground along the base of cliff-plant ledges.  Low gravity combined with the efficient use of vertical space allowed the population to grow with few major interruptions by war or disease, reaching billions before space travel was developed. The colonization of their home system saw the population boom into the tens of billions as gigantic planetoids were gathered and moved into the habitable zone to drive industry, agriculture and engineering. Concentrated raiding by Vargr corsairs spurred development of defensive technology and in time Vargr learned to avoid the Borlund system.

Since the coming of the [[Imperium|Third Imperium]], the Lurent have periodically launched expeditions to nearby worlds thought to harbour corsairs. Mercenary forces are always used, although they may be transported aboard Lurent starships. Expeditions are launched no more often than one every few years but when one is being prepared the mercenary marketplace across the sector can be affected. The Lurent do not do things by halves when it comes to suppressing piracy.