### ARAMIS

There are two worlds named Aramis in the Spinward Marches. The world named [[Traveller/Locations/Sectors/Spinward Marches Sector Systems/Aramis Subsector Systems/Aramis|Aramis]] in the subsector also named [[Aramis Subsector|Aramis]] is an important trade center and naval base. The 'other' Aramis, in Trin's Veil, is in many ways the opposite.

This Aramis possesses something its more prosperous namesake does not; a habitable 'shirtsleeves' environment. Gravity is slightly lighter than Terra-normal and the air is quite thin. This is not a major problem, but un-acclimatised visitors tire quickly and can become light-headed from moderate activity. To offset this, most ships approaching Aramis gradually lower their internal air pressure during the week in jump, so most starfarers arrive already acclimatised to local conditions. While not perfect, this enables visitors to avoid any serious effects.

Aramis is a very wet world, with extensive oceans and relatively little useable land. Nevertheless, this is more than enough for the population, which numbers in the tens of millions. There is one moderately sized continent and many large islands or archipelagos. Most of the latter have their own small nations, which vary considerably in terms of government and characteristics but conform to TL5-6.

One island nation is, in fact, an industrial enclave on long-term lease to Peabody Instrument, a firm specialising in the manufacture of scientific apparatus and instrumentation components for vehicles and industrial applications. The Peabody enclave has a large population – fully half a million people – and is also the site of the starport, giving visitors to Aramis the impression that it is a high-tech industrialised world. In fact, beyond the shores of the Peabody enclave, which takes up the entire mass of the large island, Aramis is a mess of small mid-tech societies.

The mainland is home to the majority of the population, with several states along the coastal strip, mostly known as 'claves (corrupted from enclave) and usually named for their founders. These are independent and often unfriendly, if not downright hostile, to one another. Each
'clave consists of a few small towns or a couple of larger ones, surrounded by villages and farms.

Inland is a wide outback region that is thinly populated and has no formal government. Most outbackers live in steads protected by a simple earth rampart with firing positions. Raids and feuds are not uncommon and outbacker towns are similarly protected. As a general rule, outbackers do not like coasters (or 'clavers as they are sometimes known), although there is some trade between coasters and outbackers, just as there is trade between different 'claves. For the most part, wary, armed mistrust is the order of the day.

From time-to-time 'claves come into conflict, usually over a disputed border or resources. Similarly, the 'claves will sometimes drive nearby outbackers off their land, either to seize their resources or improve the security. Hostility between coasters and outbackers probably began in this way, although the origins of the many disputes and grudges are long forgotten. Naturally, the various 'claves are willing to use outbackers against one another, either by inciting a group of outbackers to harass another 'clave or raising units of irregular troops from among outbackers for a more direct confrontation.  This serves to ensure the cycle of violence and mistrust is not broken.

Most of Aramis is tense but not especially dangerous.  Offworlders are generally recognized as not involved in the many feuds and may be offered courteous hospitality amid what amounts to a war zone. There are those who would like to engineer a situation where rivals inadvertently kill offworlders but for the most part visitors are more likely to be seen as useful contacts or honored guests. There is a strong tradition of hospitality towards those you are not actively feuding against on Aramis.

Offworlders are, however, not all that common outside the Peabody Enclave. Aramis is off the beaten track as far as interstellar commerce goes and although the Peabody installation has a fair amount of high-tech manufacturing equipment, this is used for its own business applications and not available to generate trade goods for the world.

Exports from the various 'claves and island nations are modest in quantity and constructed at TL6, making it difficult to bring in revenue. Those 'claves and nations that can find something offworlders want, and who invest the proceeds wisely, will eventually leave their rivals behind or absorb them.