### Aarza Kand

For all that Aarza Kand lacks in comfortable, habitable worlds, it is rich in resources. The system was never much more than an outpost for the Vilani and the Solomani only began to scratch the surface of its potential before the Long Night interrupted. Aarza Kand was overlooked by just about everyone until the mid-400s when belters and wildcatters began to exploit its planetoid belts and gas giants for resources. The system became a proverbial boom town and attracted millions of immigrants who came to make their fortunes. Among those who came were Irilitok Vargr from the Antares sector.

In Antares and other Imperial sectors, the Irilitok have become the go-to minority to do the dirty work that no one else wants to do: running remote space stations, building infrastructure on hostile-environment worlds, exterminating alien pests, providing security for minor merchant convoys and just about every other hazardous, life-threatening job that needs to be done. If there is money to be made and no one else wants to do it, the Irilitok will avail themselves for the job. They are heedless of danger and serve in roles that most right-minded Imperial citizens refuse to take. However, there is a dark side to the Irilitok: the Ekilati Onati, a star-spanning organised crime organization that occupies the lower rung of their society.

In most sectors, the Ekilati Onati are an afterthought, low-level thugs who extort protection money from the bottom-feeding Irilitok castes but in Shinkan – where they are referred to simply as 'the Antareans'- they are a force to be reckoned with in the criminal underworld. The Triad War between the guilds of Ishnuunar and syndicates of Derku and Gekhuu has left a power vacuum on many worlds that the Antareans have been quick to fill.

The Antareans operate primarily out of Aarza Kand itself but they also have gangs in both belts and just about every spaceport in the outer system. The Vargr are a minority race and try to keep a low profile as best they can but when crossed, the Antareans respond with violent retribution. They often employ humans as enforcers and assassins to prevent law-enforcement officers from easily implicating them. Their signature act of retribution is to perform a 'defanging' before offing someone. The bodies of their victims are found with their incisors and often their claws – or fingernails if they are human – removed. Mid-level gangsters sometimes wear collected teeth on a necklace. Traditionally this form of violence was only enacted upon other Vargr but the Ekilati Onati have begun to inflict it upon humans as well.

