### Maeghen

After living under the rule of a feudal monarchy for much of its existence, Maeghen underwent a revolution a few centuries ago in which the peoplerose up and violently overthrew the ruling families. The successor government was ostensibly a representative democracy but was in fact controlled by a corrupt shadow government, some of whom were exiled members of the monarchy. This was toppled as well and the Maeghenians, despite repeated attempts, proved unable to build a lasting government. After several failed experiments with self-rule, the People's Army took control of the planet and established a modicum of stability. While military rule is considered to be an interim step towards the establishment of a viable civilian government, it seems to be working just fine on Maeghen and there are no plans to change the arrangement any time soon. There are still rumbles of another revolution brewing but none of them have achieved any level of legitimacy or momentum thus far.

Maeghen maintains an aloof presence among the worlds of the Shinkan Main, a throwback to the Long Night when fending for oneself was the way of things. Generally speaking, life is good on Maeghen. With its Earth-like atmosphere and nearly standard gravity, the Maeghenians are self-sufficient and most of its citizens pay little attention to the interstellar community around them. Its serviceable and utilitarian highportwelcomes visitors who are travelling along the Lishun  Main but the downport scarcely rates a Class E facility. The scout base on the planet has its own Class B starport, complete with a service facility, small-craft manufacturing center and refined fuel. The base is not accessible to the public but detached duty scouts may use it upon request.

The scouts' reason for being on Maeghen is to study its unusual native plant and animal life. Based on the fossil record, over 75 percent of the species on the planet have been present for over a billion years without a major extinction event, highly unusual in the galactic scheme of things. Most worlds have fairly regular cataclysms: ice ages, asteroid strikes, plagues and other catastrophes that wipe out existing life forms only to make way for a new wave after millions of years of evolution by the survivors. The results of IISS studies are inconclusive but they have noticed several curious gaps in the taxonomy of the planet, which might be a contributing factor.

The molecular structure of Maeghen's native plant life makes it indigestible for humans. Over thousands of years of habitation, the Vilani genetically altered select species to make them nutritious for humans. In addition, they manipulated the soil so it could grow crops of imported edible food. The methods they used to adapt the plants have been lost in antiquity but most of these crops continue to thrive today. There is some concern that a blight of sufficient size could cause widespread famine but the Maeghenians have been fortunate enough to avoid such a calamity so far.

