### Minos

Minos was overlooked by the Vilani during the era of the Ziru Sirka due to its inconvenient location and lack of resources or life. It was eventually settled and developed by Solomani colonists after surveyors reported that there might be riches under the crusts of its airless rockballs. Lo and behold it was true; beneath the shallow crust of Minos, rich iridium and tungsten lodes were found as well as the elements to easily manufacture synthetic Zuchai crystals, all of which are key components in the construction of jump drives.  The initial plan was for a conglomerate of local companies to ship the materials offworld on mid-to long-range freighters, to be used in shipyards  located elsewhere. Much to everyone’s surprise, the megacorporation GSbAG orchestrated a hostile takeover  of the publicly listed companies in the conglomerate and effectively commandeered the Minos system. Shares of the major players involved were held in three different offworld exchanges but GSbAG timed their purchases to be virtually simultaneous, therefore preventing any of them from communicating with one another and preventing the takeover. Minor holdings are still held by the locals and several other investors but GSbAG managed to acquire a commanding 53-percent share of the operation. The move was extremely unpopular with the locals even after GSbAG promised to employ them at its newly built shipyard. GSbAG made assurances that it had no designs on corporate control of the system, just its industries. However, the megacorporation seems to be quite cosy with Minos’ civilian dictator who gives in to GSbAG’s every demand. In spite of the apparent conflict of interest, Minos’ shipyards are highly productive, producing starships for the Imperial Navy and several planetary navies. They also manufacture starships of civilian design but only at premium prices. GSbAG is known for high quality and its Minosian products do not disappoint.

While Minosian culture cannot be said to be distinctly Solomani, they do possess a certain smugness and entitlement that hails back to the age of the Terran takeover. Minos was a Quarantine World until late in the Sylean Pacification Campaign and surrendered to Imperial authority only after being threatened with orbital bombardment. Time and the hostile acquisition of their system’s resources has not imbued them with any degree of humility whatsoever. By and large, Minosians see themselves as bold wildcatters, making their way on a frontier system when in fact, they are very much ingrained citizens of the Imperium. There is a navy base present to remind them that the Rule of Man fell long ago and that they are citizens of the Third Imperium, not the Second.

Rumor has it that Minos is what one might call a ‘double Amber Zone’. While the Imperial Navy is allegedly present to ensure the loyalty of the Minosians and to guarantee safe transit across the Shinkan Gap, they seem to be preoccupied with something else entirely. Naval ships of unusual design have been seen jumping out of the system without reappearing at any of the worlds in the interstellar neighborhood. It is believed that these ships are jumping into the empty space somewhere between Minos and Kalendae, for what reason no one knows. Spurious rumors abound that they are investigating an Ancients cache, a rogue planet, a wreck from the Interstellar Wars or another unusual object somewhere in the cold depths of space. Whatever it is, the navy has been tight-lipped about it.
