Acadie is a colonial possession of Amondiage, with one major city and a very sparse population elsewhere on the world. The colony is kept deliberately dependent on Amondiage for industrial and technological goods, with consumer goods heavily subsidized by the central government. This amounts to bribery; the people of Acadie are well-off and comfortable when they toe the line and harshly corrected when they display too much disaffection.

As present, Acadie is going through one of its cycles of unrest and crackdowns, with large numbers of paramilitary law enforcers deployed to the world’s one city to deal with labour disputes and protests. The mining complex at Houillon, about a hundred kilometers from the capital, is in a state of general strike threatening to spread to other outlying areas. Clashes between angry workers and security forces occur nightly.

The atmosphere in the capital is thus tense and suspicious when the Travellers arrive. They will be subjected to closer questioning than usual at the starport, though a plausible cover story and believable documentation will suffice to permit entry. Security officials will issue a warning about staying out of trouble which may sound like a threat but is actually sincere – Amondiage does not want offworlders coming to harm on its supposedly happy colony.

Acadie’s normally quite liberal Law Level 3 is elevated to 6 at present, which may make it difficult to bring weaponry through the starport. Many weapon-carry laws are suspended and the authorities are suspicious of anyone who wants to be armed. The (perhaps reasonable) argument that the Travellers want to be able to protect themselves – precisely because of the elevated tensions – will get them nowhere. The authorities do not want guns on the streets whilst they restore order to Acadie’s society.
