## THE NOBILITY OF CORE

The Core peerage includes some of the oldest families of the Imperium. Many have held their patents for centuries and some even trace their origins all the way back to the beginning of the Third Imperium. Some lay claim to patents that originated during the Sylean Federation as well but such assertions are for the most part mere braggadocio. Imperial history quite stridently insists there are no noble patents that precede Year 0 even if many of the families who received patents were power brokers in the preceding state.

There is a great deal of variation among the Core peerage. At the end of the Long Night, the sector that is now Core had two other significant pocket empires, half a dozen smaller ones and many independent worlds that had somehow found the means to survive. Such worlds invariably had leadership structures in place when the Sylean Federation, and later the Third Imperium, came knocking on their doors. When the Imperium was young, it used noble patents to bribe, cajole and diplomatically entice worlds into the Imperial fold. Promises of wealth from free trade and access to high technology was enough to get most of them on board. Barren worlds – those which had never been inhabited or at best were the site of colonies that had died out millennia ago – and dead worlds – those which had civilizations that died out during the Long Night - were distributed as fiefs to honor nobles, thereby promoting them into the rank nobility. Worlds resistant to Imperial authority were dealt with in a number of ways. Some were forcibly taken, some convinced to join via diplomacy and some given the leisure to join whenever they were ready with the caveat that the Emperor’s patience was not infinite. Stragglers were also integrated into the Imperium, even if only at the bureaucratic level, and distributed as provisional fiefs. Recipients of such fiefs were often disappointed since they and their families were unable to realise any wealth from their holdings for decades if not centuries.

The Core peerage is thus a melting pot of unique dynastic traditions. The august Sylean nobles are dignified and efficient, exhibiting little of the hubris seen elsewhere. Many Vilani nobles trace their heritage all the way back to the First Imperium, a practice which – perhaps surprisingly – is encouraged by the Emperor. The nobles from the long-defunct Interstellar Confederacy are chided for their provincial accents and culture. The Chanestin nobles are the haughtiest of  the bunch and look down their noses at the rest of the peerage. Nobles from Core’s most powerful industrial subsectors attempt to lord it over their less well-heeled peers but are given short shrift by those with older dynastic heritage. A nouveau elite among the peerage has emerged on worlds with burgeoning economies. There are alien nobles as well with fiefs granted to a few Vargr, Bwap and Ssienjhiovla nobles, among others. The list goes on and there is a seemingly infinite amount of variation among them. The one thing they all have in common is the distinct pride that they are the primary nobility of the entire Imperium, looked upon with envy by their peers from other sectors. Despite their differences, the Core peerage is an effective bureaucratic body and manages to get along well for the most part. Those problems that do arise are typically caused by territorial disputes or patent revocations, each of which can cause a dynastic crisis.

Dynastic crises are magnets for conflict, which is anathema to an Imperium that seeks stability throughout its territory. It behoves the Emperor and the peerage to resolve such conflicts as quickly and efficiently as possible but there are often circumstances that prevent them from doing so. Vacant and suspended patents are not simply filled by the next rank noble, at least not initially. When a noble has been suspended or has had their patent revoked, the tradition is to let the patent lie fallow for a time and to give either the offending noble or their heirs time to make amends. Meanwhile, the peerage must assume responsibility for the fief. This is done by dividing territory among lesser nobles and sometimes by appointing one of them regent or custodian of the fief, a caretaker who assumes the role until the Emperor passes final judgment on what is to be done with the patent. Such times are rife with double dealing, espionage, subterfuge and other shenanigans. The Imperium may send spies to observe the dealings of the offending family. The subordinates of a revoked noble vie and jockey for position to assume the role and fief of their former superior. Proxy wars and other brushfire conflicts might even be stirred up. If things get out of hand – which they often do – the Imperial Navy is dispatched to keep things under control. However, martial law is rarely imposed. The Emperor allows the peerage to sort out its own problems to a great extent; he merely keeps a watchful eye on events to ensure the method they choose to resolve their problems do not reflect poorly on the Imperium or, more importantly, himself.
