## NOBLESSE OBLIGE

The primary responsibility of the Imperial nobility is to serve as an adhesive that keeps worlds together. Nobles are expected to exhibit loyalty to the Emperor with honor as their guiding principle. Keeping the whole thing together requires an extensive bureaucracy and the nobility are the lattice upon which this is built.

To some extent the nobility are the watchdogs of the Emperor. Imperial law has a few fully defined tenets and a broad array of traditions that the nobility must interpret and enforce. Most Imperial laws are deliberately vague to prevent them from being subjected to precedent and to keep local governments from designing loopholes to evade them. The Imperium is a large polity and legal arguments cannot easily be conducted across its broad expanse. For example, it is broadly known that impeding free trade is a violation of Imperial law. When the government of a world takes issue with the trade practices of a neighboring world and uses its planetary navy to create a blockade or enforce an embargo upon the offending world, the local nobility must ascertain whether or not free trade is ultimately being impeded or served. More often than not, the task of the nobility is to do absolutely nothing. The Imperium tries to avoid becoming involved in local affairs unless they threaten to spill over into the greater interstellar community.

The nobility must often walk a fine line. A noble who takes sides or gets involved too early in a conflict runs the risk of becoming intrusive or, worse, autocratic. On the other hand, if a noble waits too long to intercede on behalf of the Imperium and things get out of hand, thereby requiring the involvement of the Imperial Navy or establishing military rule on one or more planets, the peerage and perhaps even the Emperor himself may question whether or not the noble could have done something earlier in the crisis.

Many nobles take a rather technocratic approach, using data collected by the x-boat network, high-tech surveillance equipment and reports collected from subordinate members of the peerage and the orders of knighthood. Others take a more hands-on approach to find the pulse of the worlds of their fiefs, travelling from system-to-system, intermixing with the people and relying on intuition more than impersonal computer algorithms. There is no right or wrong way to go about the business of managing the worlds of the Imperium. The proof is in the pudding. All the Emperor wants are results. How a rank noble manages their worlds is of little importance as long as the outcome is satisfactory. All that matters is the continued stability and progress of the Imperium.
