## ORDERS OF KNIGHTHOOD

Among the most lively institutions within the nobility are its many orders of knighthood. Upon achieving the rank of knight, recipients of the title are granted membership in one of the Imperium’s dozens of orders. The most common orders are those of each domain: The Order of Antares, the Order of Gateway, the Order of Sol, the Order of Sylea and the Order of Vland. Assignment to each of these orders is conferred by the Archduke of each domain. The Domain of Deneb does not have an order of its own because it has no Archduke. However, the knights of this frontier region have done what they can to make up for that by establishing several private orders, some of which are quite exclusive.

Many orders have been established to represent certain goals, responsibilities and achievements. Military veterans who achieve knighthood become members of the Order of the Sword. Ex-scouts and other deep-space explorers are granted membership in the Order of the Arrow. Knights who achieved their rank by accomplishment in the sciences become members of the Order of Fusion. The Order of the Emperor’s Guard is by nature a rather exclusive order since membership is only granted to soldiers who serve in the ranks of the Guard. There are also orders for loyal alien citizens who have been made knights, including the Order of Hlyuea for Aslan and the Order of Gvadakoung for Vargr, both of which were founded by Empress Arbellatra.

There are also many secret orders of knighthood, established for various purposes. Secret orders usually have a noble sponsor among the peerage whose responsibilities are clandestine in nature and therefore not revealed to the public. Many former Imperial intelligence operatives belong to secret orders and are sometimes called upon for their expertise in confidential matters. They may even be asked to accept secret missions in service to high-ranking members of the peerage or the Emperor himself.

Perhaps the most prestigious order of all is the Order of Starship and Crown, which has only a few hundred members. The knights of this order pledge a special oath of loyalty to the Emperor and have committed themselves to do his bidding no matter the request and often taking on special missions in service to the throne. Knights of this order proudly wear its logo on a badge or tabard, which depicts an iconic starship surrounded by a ring (representing the crown) in gold on a black background.

Membership in an order confers several benefits that are similar to those who possess a Travellers’ Aid Society membership. Knights of a certain domain can often obtain free high passage aboard starships provided they travel within the realm of their title. Worlds with a Class A starport and Population 6+ often have hostels that exclusively serve the knighthood community, sometimes only those of certain orders. Membership in an order provides a ready pool of potential contacts and patrons for knighted Travellers. Meeting or simply coming into contact with other members of one’s order might also result in a request for assistance. When another knight of the order asks for help, it is expected that their fellow knight will comply. To do otherwise risks damage to one’s reputation and possibly expulsion from the order.

The bonds of fellowship that develop between the knights of an order create ready pools of able noblemen for the peerage to access. Relatively few knights have fiefs to manage and are therefore seen as resources by higher ranking nobles. Groups of knights from an order – or in some cases, the entire available membership – may be called upon from time-to-time by a baron or higher to accomplish a task in service to the Imperium. The peerage knows and trusts knighted women and men, all of whom have sworn their loyalty to the Emperor. Much like a plea for help from a fellow knight of one’s order, requests from the peerage are defied or resisted at one’s peril. Despite the responsibilities entailed, many knights enjoy their noble rank and do not desire promotion. Higher noble ranks confer levels of responsibility that many do not desire. While the call to service may come at any time, knights of the Imperium are seen as the errant knights of old, brave and chivalrous Travellers who wander between the stars, searching for adventure in the service of the Emperor.