## RANKS WITHIN THE RANKS

Noble rank and the origin of patent are only half the story. There is a complex hierarchy within the nobility guided as much by tradition as the letter of the law. Honor nobles have lower status than rank nobles, especially when the rank noble gained the title hereditarily instead of through service. For example, the greatest sculptor in all of the Core may have been granted an honor barony as a reward for his great works, some of which even adorn the Hall of Wisdom in the Grand Palace of Arbellatra. At court, this noble, despite all of his grand achievements, is considered to be below a ranked baron whose family has held the middling world of Siduka for generations. Heredity, patent longevity and enfeoffment always outrank honor achievements, no matter how lofty.

Some rank nobles have higher status than other rank nobles as well, based on the concept of precedence. Precedence indicates the length of time that a noble family has held a patent. The older the patent, the greater the prestige. Loyal noble families who have maintained good standing with the Emperor may have held a patent for generations or even centuries. Holding such a patent confers great responsibilities. Rank noble patents almost universally include a fief, which may be anywhere from a few hundred square kilometres on a single world to a whole planet, multiple planets, an entire subsector and so on.

Merely holding land is not enough to maintain prestige when one’s family holds a patent of high precedence. This is where the concept of high nobility comes into play. The great noble families carry a responsibility of service to the Imperium and typically hold positions within the bureaucracy, diplomatic roles, judicial positions and business or military leadership roles. Political roles are not out of the question but generally speaking, governance is left to individual worlds.