## THE MOOT

The high nobility serve the Imperium by sending representatives to the Moot, the highest bureaucratic body of the nobility in the Imperium. Members of the Moot are all nobles ranked baron or higher, although many send proxies to represent them. The noble families are encouraged to send representatives from their respective families, which most do, but some appoint a third party. Those who truly want to wield power either attend in person or send the heir to their noble patent.

The Moot have essentially one power; to dissolve the Imperium. This responsibility is not taken lightly but has been entertained from time-to-time over the course of Imperial history. During the Civil War, the chaotic reign of Cleon III and other times of crisis, members of the Moot threatened to use the power of dissolution. In practice, use of this power brings the opposed sides together to compromise but in theory it could actually result in the breakup of the Imperium should things get bad enough. It is a powerful but dangerous tool and its usage is not to be taken lightly.

Although dissolution is the Moot’s only actual ability, this does not mean that it is the only thing the nobility discusses within the chambers of the Moot Spire. All manner of subjects pertaining to the Imperium are discussed and high-ranking members of the Moot frequently meet with and advise the Emperor. While the Emperor is the only executive authority in the Imperium, he takes the advice of the Moot seriously. The Emperor is not all-knowing and cannot be expected to be clued into everything that is happening in his empire. He is given daily briefs about events happening throughout the Imperium but such information is often factual, unemotional and lacks context. For accurate, more nuanced information, he must rely upon his nobles, each of whom can give him a detailed account about what is actually happening in each of the Imperium’s sectors, right down to events on individual worlds if need be. The de facto leader of the Moot is the Chancellor, a high noble drawn from its ranks whom the Emperor feels he can trust. The Chancellorship is a much sought-after position and is usually a lifetime appointment.

The Moot Spire is a 1.75 kilometre tall structure located a mere 4.25 kilometre from the Emperor’s palace. Symbolically, the peak of the spire is allowed to rise above the crown of the Grand Palace except on one day; when a new Emperor is appointed. On that day, the subterranean gravitic compensators raise the altitude of the place so that its crown is 100m above the peak of the Moot Spire, indicating the ‘Emperor Ascendant’. More information about the Moot Spire is provided in the description of Capital on page 155.