## MERCENARY FORCES

The worlds of the Imperium are rife with opportunities for the mercenary soldier. Despite its vastness, great wealth and the power of its military forces, the Imperium cannot be everywhere at once, nor does it try to be. Its worlds are free to raise their own armies and govern themselves as they wish, provided they do not break Imperial laws. As such, conflicts develop between rival forces on individual worlds and, in some cases, between worlds in neighboring star systems. The Imperium rarely gets involved in these dustups unless they threaten the regional economy or passage of free trade. To a certain extent, the Imperium actually supports the notion of small, contained wars as a necessary outlet for social and political pressures. Suppressing conflicts can cause greater problems than simply allowing them to progress naturally. This is where the soldier for hire comes into play.

Mercenary forces have found active employment in all sectors of the Imperium. A common misconception is that mercenaries are less common closer to the Imperial Core, which is far from the case. The types of tickets available on the frontier may differ from those in the interior but the uneven landscape of the Imperium is fallow ground for dissension and conflict. When conflicts escalate to war, parties with the means may hire mercenaries to achieve specific objectives, secure their territory or assets from real or perceived threats, train militias and armies in the use of modern weaponry and, in many cases, simply to fight alongside their own armies.

Conflicts between nations and worlds are not the only venues where mercenaries find gainful employment. Corporations and megacorporations frequently hire them. Security contracts are given to reputable mercenary units to protect key personnel, industrial facilities, prototypes being transferred between corporate sites and similar jobs. Corporations sometimes engage each other in more direct conflict as well. As long as such conflicts do not boil over and affect the Imperial economy in a noticeable way, they are often allowed to occur.

The mercenary services market varies widely. At the lower end, some are barely more than vagabonds with a few combat skills who hire on as paid killers.

Independent contractors with a higher degree of professionalism sell their skills to more reputable clients and often hire on with a bonded mercenary company. Mercenary companies vary widely as well. Some are generalists who take on a variety of contracts, others specialise in fields like shipboard  defense, security, commando operations, mobile armor and field training. The size of these companies varies, with some as small as a fire team and others battalion-sized or larger.

For more information on mercenaries and rules for running detailed mercenary campaigns, refer to the _Mercenary_ box set.
