As the Major Races began to reach out to the stars and build interstellar polities, most  established the seat of empire in a single star system, usually on a single world. A capital might be placed on the surface of a system mainworld, the moon of a gas giant, a large hollowed out  asteroid or even an orbital habitat. Such a capital is vulnerable to destruction by a large impactor. A bolide of significant size – perhaps only 10 or more kilometers in diameter – could be hurtled at such a target at high – even relativistic – speeds with cataclysmic effects. To prevent such a thing from happening, the Short Baseline Observation Window (a.k.a., Project Shortbow) program was created.

Project Shortbow is administered and staffed by a secret agency of the Imperial Academy of Science and Medicine in concert with the Imperial Navy Science Division. The technology created by the project is essentially a collection of sensor devices and an immense telescopic array that watches for potentially hostile anomalies that might be directed towards [[Capital]]. Similar, less expansive systems exist on other Imperial worlds of great import, including Reference and the majority of Imperial Depots.

Shortbow is not a fool-proof system. Space is immense and it is nigh impossible to see all possible dangers; however, the technological aspect of the project is merely one component. Imperial Naval Intelligence has a veritable army of operatives who keep a watchful eye on dissident groups and other potential bad actors. If detected, it is better to nip such problems in the bud rather than waiting to let them mount a viable threat.