### MIRRIAM
Mirriam is a large world with a dense, tainted atmosphere with more than 90% of the surface covered by oceans. A considerable amount of Mirriam's land takes the form of mountain ranges, small islands or is otherwise unusable. This includes most of the arctic and sub-arctic regions.

As a result, the population, numbering hundreds of millions, mostly dwells in cities located just off the coast and projecting up above the waves. Of those built on land, some are located in mountain valleys but most lie on coastal plains where they benefit from sea-farming.
This is an important industry, ranging from fisheries to vast seabed farms protected by domes, growing fields of cereals and vegetables for the cities and shipment through the starport. Mirriam is a commercial exporter of foodstuffs to surrounding worlds but this is of minor importance to the local economy. Most food shipped out goes to the naval bases in the surrounding area. Imperial-navy ration contracts pay better than commercial sales, so much of the world's output is tied into fulfilling these requirements.

Most of Mirriam's income is derived from exports of industrial and technological items. Only two worlds in the subsector (Iderati and Karin) have better technology available for export and Mirriam's population is big enough to allow for large-scale industrial production of TL10 items. Grav vehicles and electronics for various applications are exported across the subsector.

Miriam is a dictatorship, although a moderate and benign one. Laws are not excessively tight and enforcement is fair for the most part. Living standards are good and there are opportunities for personal advancement, all of which contributes to a contented population and popular government.

One route to advancement is Imperial service. Mirriam has both a naval base and way station, both of which recruit extensively from the world's population, offering a generous system of tax breaks and enhanced second-career opportunities for veterans. Many enter service with Mirriam's system squadron or reserve armed forces, while ex-scouts find a new home with the Deep Sea Exploration Service (DSES).

The DSES is dedicated to mapping ocean beds and researching the creatures living there. It is a reasonably safe occupation but there are always hazards inherent when exploring caves in the side of an ocean trench 10 kilometers beneath the surface.

Mirriam's naval base is one of several forming a ring around the Droyne worlds of Andor and Candory. Due to the extremely strict nature of the Red Zones around those worlds, the nearest Imperial systems all have naval bases and forces there are on high alert. Caution is advised, as the Imperial Navy is more than ready to fire on vessels attempting to slip through or sneak something past the blockade.

As a result, extremely thorough inspections and customs checks are undertaken and any irregularity can result in a ship being impounded and stripped down to the hull braces, while the crew get pretty much the same treatment. Vessels capable of making the three-parsec transit are viewed with more suspicion than those that obviously could not reach Candory.

Mirriam's scout base is a full way station, serving as a repository for communications vessels plying the long route back into the [[Imperium]] as well as between Imperial base worlds in the subsector. A sizable fleet of survey and exploration vessels is also stationed at Mirriam and scout ships routinely depart on missions to spinward and rimward. Most are of short duration but some can be deployed for very long periods. The Scout Service has recently acquired several ex-Navy tankers and Dromedaries (ships that carry both fuel and dry stores), some of which support scout missions in their original capacity, i.e. as resupply vessels. This is rapidly becoming known as the most boring job in the Scout Service apart from x-boat-pilot duty. As x-boat pilots joke; at least aboard an x-boat you've always got someone interesting to talk to.

Other tankers and dromedaries have been converted to scout base ships, which carry a flock of smaller vessels such as scout/couriers and survey scouts. They are designed to make use of the high jump capacity of naval tankers (typically jump-4) to reach an area quickly, then remain on station as a mobile base for the smaller vessels as they collect data. Thus far, several base-ship missions have been sent out, all of them to spinward.