### SAXE
Saxe is located almost at the extreme spinward end of the Spinward Main, just beyond the Imperial border. It is a large world with an exotic atmosphere, a nitrogen-
carbon-dioxide mix with very little oxygen. While not actively toxic to humans, it cannot support respiration; an unprotected human would breathe air in and out while they collapsed and died of anoxia. In order to avoid this unpleasant fate, a full air supply is needed although a sealed unit such as a vacc suit is not.

Saxe was settled by a rather optimiztic mission that pushed ahead of the spread of Imperials into [[The Spinward Marches|the Marches]] and was forced to make a home on Saxe when the colony ship's systems began to fail. The ship was used as a habitat until more permanent structures could be created and then cannibalised for parts. It was some years before other colony missions arrived in the area and longer still before trade ships began calling at the rudimentary starport constructed outside Saxe City, as the original settlement became known. By this time, several other small towns had been constructed, although the colonists never spread far from their original landing area.

The world has gone through periods of oppression and internal conflict but today a liberal republican system is in place, with outlying settlements more or less independent. Vast tracts of Saxe remain untamed wildernesses which, in most areas, are entirely uncharted.

Saxe is friendly to the [[Imperium]] and visited by Navy patrols from time-to-time. Trade ships are rarer, although occasionally a jump-2 capable trader uses the world as a stopover on the Five Sisters-Darrian run. Otherwise, the colonists go about their business as they always have.

The atmosphere of Saxe cannot support land-based animal life, not even insects. This makes flowering plants unviable but others seem to do well and ferns, mosses and grass-like plants grow wherever there is soil to support them, while shallow watercourses are choked with primitive plant life that grows in great mats that can eventually form a natural, living dam. These plant-
dams create pools surrounded by swampy areas, which are ideal for riotous plant growth. The swamps in turn are home to primitive water-dwelling animals resembling shrimp, krill and similar crustaceans.

According to some scientists, Saxe is moving towards being a terra-prime world. As more swamps are created by plant-dams, the amount of plant life performing photosynthesis on Saxe is increasing, putting small but increasing amounts of oxygen into the air. It may be that this will someday lead to a breathable atmosphere and emergence of life onto land. For next few million years however, any enterprising lungfish-equivalent that sticks its head up to try breathing air for a change is going to be terminally disappointed.

Various scientific institutions have expressed an interest in studying the emergence of life on Saxe although the difficulty of getting to the world from major Imperial centres of learning in [[The Spinward Marches|the Marches]] has prevented any real effort. Darrian scientists have visited the world and set-up a temporary research facility in the 1060s. This installation was little more than a set of prefabricated living quarters outside one of the smaller local towns and was hurriedly evacuated in the early months of the Fourth Frontier War. It still stands but the ever-pragmatic Saxans stripped the place within hours of the Darrians' departure.